1 Name of the publishing authority
1.1 The Singapore Aeronautical Information Products are published by authority of the Civil Aviation Authority of
 Singapore.

2 Applicable ICAO documents
 - ICAO Annex 15 - Aeronautical Information Service;
 - ICAO Annex 4 - Aeronautical Charts;
 - ICAO Doc 8126 - AIS Manual;
 - ICAO Doc 8697 - Aeronautical Chart Manual.
 - ICAO Doc 10066 - Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Aeronautical Information Management
 (PANS-AIM)

2.1 Differences to ICAO Standards, Recommended Practices and Procedures are listed under subsection GEN
 1.7.

3 Publication Media
3.1 The Singapore Aeronautical Information Products comprising AIP Singapore, AIP Amendments, AIP Supplements,
 Aeronautical Information Circulars and NOTAM Lists, including NOTAMs and Pre-Flight Information Bulletins
 are available for retrieval from AIM-SG URL https://aim-sg.caas.gov.sg

4 The AIP structure and established regular amendment interval

4.1 The AIP structure
 The AIP forms part of the Aeronautical Information Products, details of which are given in subsection GEN 3.1.
 The principal AIP structure is shown in graphic form on page GEN 0.1-3.

 The AIP is made up of three Parts, General (GEN), En-route (ENR) and Aerodromes (AD), each divided into
 sections and subsections as applicable, containing various types of information.

4.1.1 PART 1 — GENERAL (GEN)
 Part 1 consists of five sections containing information briefly described hereafter.

 GEN 0 - Preface; Record of AIP Amendments; Record of current AIP Supplements; Checklist of AIP pages;
 List of hand amendments to the AIP; and Table of Contents to Part 1.
 GEN 1 - National regulations and requirements - Designated authorities; Entry, transit and departure of
 aircraft; Entry, transit and departure of passengers and crew; Entry, transit and departure of cargo;
 Aircraft instruments, equipment and flight documents; Summary of national regulations and
 international agreements/conventions; and Differences from ICAO Standards, Recommended
 Practices and Procedures.
 GEN 2 - Tables and codes - Measuring system, aircraft markings, holidays; Abbreviations used in AIS
 publications; Chart symbols; Location indicators; List of radio navigation aids; Conversion tables;
 and Sunrise/Sunset tables.
 GEN 3 - Services - Aeronautical Information Services; Aeronautical Charts; Air Traffic Services;
 Communication Services; Meteorological Services; and Search and Rescue.
 GEN 4 - Charges for aerodromes and air navigation services - Aerodrome charges and Air navigation
 services charges.


4.1.2 PART 2 — EN-ROUTE (ENR)
 Part 2 consists of seven sections containing information briefly described hereafter.



 GEN 1.1 DESIGNATED AUTHORITIES
The authority responsible for civil aviation in Singapore is the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore under the Ministry of Transport.
The addresses of the designated authorities concerned with facilitation of international air navigation are as follows:

1 CIVIL AVIATION
 Post:
 CIVIL AVATION AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE
 SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT, P.O. BOX 1
 SINGAPORE 918141
 Tel: (65) 65421122
 Fax: (65) 65421231
 AFS: WSSSYAYX
 URL: www.caas.gov.sg

2 METEOROLOGY
 Post:
 DIRECTOR-GENERAL METEOROLOGICAL SERVICE SINGAPORE
 Singapore Changi Airport, P.O. Box 8
 SINGAPORE 918141
 Tel: (65) 65457190
 Fax: (65) 65457192
 AFS: WSSSYMYX
 URL: www.weather.gov.sg

3 CUSTOMS
 Post:
 SINGAPORE CUSTOMS
 55 Newton Road #10-01, Revenue House
 SINGAPORE 307987
 Tel: (65) 63552000
 Fax: (65) 62508663
 URL: www.customs.gov.sg

4 IMMIGRATION
 Post:
 IMMIGRATION & CHECKPOINTS AUTHORITY
 10 Kallang Road, #08-00 ICA Building
 SINGAPORE 208718
 Tel: (65) 63916100
 Fax: (65) 62980837
 URL: www.ica.gov.sg

5 HEALTH
 Post:
 MINISTRY OF HEALTH
 16 College Road, College of Medicine Building
 SINGAPORE 169854
 Tel: (65) 63259220
 Fax:
 URL: www.moh.gov.sg




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2019
GEN 1.1-2 AIP Singapore
25 APR 2019

6 ENROUTE AND AERODROME CHARGES
 Post:
 CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE
 Singapore Changi Airport P.O. Box 1
 SINGAPORE 918141
 Tel: (65) 65421122
 Fax: (65) 65421231
 AFS: WSSSYAYX
 Post:
 CHANGI AIRPORT GROUP (S) PTE LTD
 SELETAR AIRPORT
 21 Seletar Aerospace Road 1 #02-01
 SINGAPORE 797405
 Tel: (65)64815077 Airside Operations
 Fax: (65)64831754

7 AGRICULTURE QUARANTINE
 Post:
 Head Office: AGRI FOOD AND VET AUTHORITY
 JEM Office Tower, 52 Jurong Gateway Road #14-01
 SINGAPORE 608550
 Tel: (65) 68052992
 Fax: (65) 63341831
 URL: www.ava.gov.sg
 Post:
 CHANGI ANIMAL AND PLANT QUARANTINE STATION
 AGRI-FOOD AND VETERINARY AUTHORITY
 Gate C7, Airport Cargo Road Changi Airfreight Centre
 Changi Animal and Plant Quarantine
 SINGAPORE 918104
 Tel: (65) 65457522
 Fax: (65) 65453023

8 TRANSPORT SAFETY INVESTIGATION BUREAU
 Post:
 Director (TSIB)
 MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
 c/o Changi Airport Post Office P.O. Box 1005
 SINGAPORE 918155
 Tel: (65) 65412798
 Fax: (65) 65422394
 URL: www.mot.gov.sg




AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.2-1
 15 SEP 2016


 GEN 1.2 ENTRY, TRANSIT AND DEPARTURE OF AIRCRAFT

1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 International flights into, from or over Singapore territory shall be subject to the current Singapore regulations
 relating to civil aviation. These regulations correspond in all essentials to the Standards and Recommended
 Practices contained in Annex 9 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation.

1.2 Aircraft flying into or departing from Singapore territory shall make their first landing at, or final departure from
 an international aerodrome (see AIP Singapore page AD 1.3-1 and section AD 2).

1.3 Notwithstanding the regulations relating to civil aviation over Singapore territory, aircraft operators should consult
 the respective AIPs for other documentary and / or permit requirements for flights intending to enter, depart,
 and / or overfly the sovereign airspaces of States along the planned flight routes.

2 APPLICATION FOR SLOTS AT SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
2.1 Singapore Changi Airport is a slot coordinated airport, with Changi Airport Group (CAG) as the Slot Coordinator.
 To ensure efficiency of aircraft operations and optimisation of airport resources, all operators of scheduled and
 non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flights must obtain slots from the Changi Slot Coordinator
 prior to the operation of such flights.

2.2 To apply for slots for access to Singapore Changi Airport, all operators or agents of non-scheduled, commercial
 and non-commercial flights shall submit applications for slots via either a Slot Clearance Request (SCR) to the
 Changi Slot Coordinator, or for operators without a 2-letter IATA airline code, a General (Aviation) Clearance
 Request (GCR) through the Online Coordination System (OCS) (at www.online-coordination.com).
 Changi Slot Coordinator
 c/o Changi Airport Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd
 Singapore Changi Airport
 P.O. Box 168
 Singapore 918146
 Email: csc@changiairport.com
 Tel: +65 6541 2378 or +65 6541 3064

2.3 Operators or agents of non-scheduled, commercial and non-commercial flights shall submit their slot requests
 to the Changi Slot Coordinator no earlier than 7 calendar days and but no later than 24 hours prior to the operation
 of the flight, for which the slot will be utilized.

2.4 To facilitate the optimisation of aircraft parking resources at Singapore Changi Airport, operators or agents of
 non-scheduled, commercial and non-commercial flights are strongly advised to limit their ground time to no more
 than 48 hours from the arrival slot timing.

2.5 For urgent non-scheduled, commercial and non-commercial flight operations that are less than 24 hours from
 the proposed date of operation, in addition to submitting the SCR/GCR, operators/agents must also inform the
 Airside Operations Section of CAG (Airside Management Centre) at +65 6603 4906 / +65 6541 2275 /
 +65 6541 2273.

2.6 EXEMPT FLIGHTS

2.6.1 Notwithstanding paragraph 2.1, the following types of flights may operate to / from Singapore Changi Airport
 without obtaining slots from the Changi Slot Coordinator:

 - Emergency landings. e.g. diversions or quick returns after takeoff, oil spill response operations
 - Flights operating under diplomatic cover
 - Flights operated by the military, including those carrying supplies but excluding those chartered on a commercial
 basis by the military
 - Humanitarian flights including those responding to medical emergencies where the safety of human life is
 concerned or involved in search and rescue operations
 - Technical flights including radar and NAVAID calibration / check flights

2.7 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION OF PROPELLER AIRCRAFT AT SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT

2.7.1 Both scheduled and non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) propeller aircraft operations will not be
 allocated new slots at Singapore Changi Airport.




© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2016
GEN 1.2-2 AIP Singapore
30 JAN 2020

3 SUBMISSION OF FLIGHT DETAILS AND APPLICATION FOR SLOTS AT SELETAR AIRPORT
3.1 Seletar Airport is a schedules facilitated airport, with Changi Airport Group (CAG) as the Seletar Schedules
 Facilitator. To ensure efficiency of aircraft operations and optimisation of airport resources, all operators of
 non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flights must submit details of their planned operations to the
 Seletar Schedules Facilitator prior to these operations. Operators shall also be prepared to make adjustments
 to their schedules when necessary as advised by the Seletar Schedules Facilitator to ensure that airport capacity
 parameters are not exceeded. In addition, all operators of scheduled flights must obtain slots from the Seletar
 Schedules Facilitator prior to the operation of such flights. No operation will be permitted without the approval
 of the Seletar Schedules Facilitator.

3.2 For non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flight operations, operators or agents shall submit details
 of their planned operations to seletar.airside@changiairport.com during the flights submission window, defined
 as no earlier than 7 calendar days but no later than 1400 UTC / 2200 LT on the day prior to the planned operations.

3.3 For urgent non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flight operations of which details were not submitted
 during the flights submission window, operators or agents must submit the details to
 seletar.airside@changiairport.com and call to inform the Airside Operations Section of Seletar Airport at
 +65 6481 5077.

3.4 Operators or agents shall include the following details of the flight operations in their submission:

 - Name of operator and appointed ground handling agent;
 - Date and time of arrival and departure (in local time);
 - Aircraft type and seat capacity;
 - Origin and destination;
 - Aircraft registration number; and
 - Purpose of flight (e.g. business aviation; general aviation; cargo; maintenance, repair and operations (MRO);
 etc.).

3.5 For scheduled flight operations, operators shall submit applications for slots via a Slot Clearance Request (SCR)
 to csc@changiairport.com.

3.6 All operators shall adhere to the IATA Worldwide Slot Guidelines (WSG). A copy of this document can be
 obtained from www.iata.org/wsg

3.7 EXEMPT FLIGHTS

3.7.1 Notwithstanding paragraph 3.1, the following types of flights may operate to / from Seletar Airport without
 submitting details of their flight operations to the Seletar Schedules Facilitator during the flights submission
 window as stipulated in paragraph 3.2:

 - Emergency landings, e.g. diversions or quick returns after takeoff, oil spill response operations;
 - Flights operating under diplomatic cover;
 - Flights operated by the military, including those carrying supplies but excluding those chartered on a commercial
 basis by the military;
 - Humanitarian flights including those responding to medical emergencies where the safety of human life is
 concerned or involved in search & rescue operations; and
 - Technical flights including radar and NAVAID calibration /check flights.

3.7.2 However, operators or agents of exempt flights shall call to inform the Airside Operations Section of Seletar
 Airport at +65 6481 5077 of their flight operations in advance.

3.8 DESIGNATED HOURS FOR TRAINING FLIGHTS

3.8.1 To optimise the use of capacity, training and non-training flights will be segregated through designated hours
 for training flights. Non-training flights will not be permitted at Seletar Airport during the following periods from
 Tuesdays to Sundays:

 - 0130 to 0230 UTC / 0930 to 1030 LT;
 - 0400 to 0500 UTC / 1200 to 1300 LT;
 - 0700 to 0800 UTC / 1500 to 1600 LT; and
 - 0900 to 1000 UTC / 1700 to 1800 LT.

3.8.2 All operators or agents and pilots are to plan their flight schedules with sufficient buffers to avoid the designated
 hours for training flights.

3.8.3 Notwithstanding paragraph 3.8.1, the following types of flights may be permitted during the designated hours
 for training flights:


AIP AMDT 01/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.2-3
 30 JAN 2020

 - Emergency landings, e.g. diversions or quick returns after takeoff, oil spill response operations;
 - Flights operating under diplomatic cover; and
 - Humanitarian flights including those responding to medical emergencies where the safety of human life is
 concerned or involved in search & rescue operations.

4 CIVIL SCHEDULED FLIGHTS

4.1 GENERAL
4.1.1 Before a scheduled service is permitted to operate into the Republic of Singapore, it must be appropriately
 covered by either an air services agreement, a licence issued in accordance with the Air Navigation (Licensing
 of Air Services) Regulations or other aeronautical arrangements. All scheduled flights are subject to prior approval.

4.2 APPLICATION FOR TRAFFIC LANDINGS AND UPLIFTS (SCHEDULED FLIGHTS)
4.2.1 Only the airline operator may apply for permission to operate scheduled flights.

4.2.2 All airline operators are to submit their applications for scheduled flights for each IATA schedule season one
 month before the start of the season for approval by CAAS.

4.2.3 In addition, airline operators are also required to apply for CAAS’ approval for any revisions to their schedule
 filings for the season, ad-hoc changes to flight schedules and flight cancellations. Such applications should be
 filed through the CAAS Air Transport Licensing and Administration System (ATLAS) at
 https://appserver1.caas.gov.sg/ATLAS 5 working days before flight changes take place.

4.2.4 If insufficient notice as specified in paragraphs 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 is given, the application may not be considered.

4.2.5 Airline operators are to ensure that a copy of the following documents, which are to remain valid during the
 period of operations, are lodged with CAAS:

 a. Certificate(s) of Registration(s) for aircraft used;
 b. Certificate(s) of Airworthiness for aircraft used; and
 c. Air Operator’s Certificate

4.2.6 All applications and required documents listed in paragraph 3.2.5 should be submitted via ATLAS.

4.3 DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS FOR CLEARANCE OF AIRCRAFT
4.3.1 It is necessary that the undermentioned aircraft documents be submitted by airline operators for clearance on
 entry and departure of their aircraft to and from Singapore. All documents listed below must follow the ICAO
 standard format as set forth in the relevant appendices to ICAO Annex 9. They are acceptable in English only
 and must be completed in legible handwriting. No visas are required in connection with such documents.

4.3.2 Aircraft Documents Requirements (arrival/departure)
 a. One copy of the General Declaration is endorsed and returned by Customs, signifying clearance.
 b. If no passengers are embarking (disembarking) and no articles are laden (unladen), no aircraft documents
 except copies of the General Declaration need be submitted to the above authorities.

5 CIVIL NON-SCHEDULED FLIGHTS

5.1 PROCEDURES

5.1.1 Overflights
5.1.1.1 Prior notification is necessary. Subject to the observance of the terms of the Convention on International Civil
 Aviation, Singapore facilitates overflights by civil aircraft registered in any ICAO Contracting States with which
 Singapore has diplomatic relations provided adequate advance notification shall have been given.

5.1.1.2 Notification by flight plan addressed to the Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre (WSJCZQZX) if received at
 least 2 hours in advance of the aircraft’s arrival into the Singapore Flight Information Region will normally be
 accepted as advance notification in this respect.

5.1.1.3 In all other cases, prior permission must be sought and obtained through diplomatic means from the Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs, Republic of Singapore.

© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2020
 GEN 1.2-4 AIP Singapore
 21 MAY 2020eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 5.1.2 Non-Traffic or Technical Landings
 5.1.2.1 Prior notification is necessary. Subject to the observance of the terms of the Convention on International Civil
 Aviation, Singapore facilitates such non-traffic or technical landings by civil aircraft registered in any ICAO
 Contracting States with which Singapore has diplomatic relations provided adequate advance notification shall
 have been given.

 5.1.2.2 Notification by flight plan addressed to the Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre (WSJCZQZX) if received at
 least 2 hours in advance of the aircraft’s arrival at Singapore Changi Airport or Seletar Aerodrome or 2 hours
 prior to entering the Singapore Flight Information Region whichever is the earlier will normally be accepted as
 advance notification in this respect.

 5.1.2.3 All business aviation aircraft shall park in a nose-in position and be pushed back with the aid of an aircraft
 tow-bar and tow-tractor. Reverse thrust or variable pitch propellers shall not be used. The aircraft must carry
 its own tow-bar. The aircraft operator may make arrangements with the ground handling agent to provide the
 tow-bar. The aircraft shall be required to be towed to another aircraft stand should the need arise.

 5.1.2.4 All passengers of the business aviation flight will have to clear CIQ via the Commercially-Important- Persons
 facility located at Terminal 2.

 5.1.2.5 All business aviation flights must engage a ground handling agent at Singapore Changi Airport.

 5.1.2.6 In all other cases, prior permission must be sought and obtained through diplomatic means from the Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs, Republic of Singapore.

 5.1.2.7 All non-traffic aircraft are to submit a copy of the Certificate of Airworthiness to CAAS, after each landing, by
 facsimile at 6545 6519 or by email to CAAS_FS_FOS@caas.gov.sg
 
 5.1.3 Application for Traffic Landings and Uplifts (Non-Scheduled Flights)
 5.1.3.1 All non-scheduled flights are subject to prior approval.

 5.1.3.2 Only the operator may apply for permission to operate a non-scheduled flight. The following information should
 be submitted together with the application:

 a. Name, address and nationality of operator;
 b. Name, address and business of charterer;
 c. Type, registration mark and carrying capacity of aircraft;
 d. Aircraft documents listed in para 3.2.5;
 e. Nature of flight including details of whether the flight is to carry passengers or cargo or both;

 i. for passenger flights: points of origin and destination of passengers, purpose of flight e.g. special
 event charter, inclusive tours and own-use charter; and the names of passengers.
 ii. for cargo flights: the origin, destination, description, quantities and dimensions of cargo;
 outbound/inbound or transhipment, as well as whether any item is perishable or classified as
 dangerous, explosive or munitions of war. (Please see regulations concerning importation,
 transhipment and exportation of cargo in subsection GEN 1.4).

 f. Details of route, points of landing and final destination;
 g. Date and time of arrival at, and departure from Singapore (Please see para 4.1.3.4 below);
 h. Name, address and telephone number of operator's local agent and ground handling agent;
 i. Name and address of consignees and consignors, where applicable;
 j. Any other information that may be relevant to the proposed operations.

 5.1.3.3 All applications must be submitted via https://appserver1.caas.gov.sg/ATLAS

 The complete application and its supporting documents must reach the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Air
 Transport Division via the weblink provided at least 3 working days prior to the aircraft’s arrival or departure
 into/from Singapore to be considered for a “normal permit”. Operators who wish to obtain a permit under 3
 working days may submit their applications. Such applications must reach the Air Transport Division at least
 24 hours before the proposed flight to be considered for an “express permit”. Applicants for express permits
 should alert the Air Transport Duty Officer at +65 98331775. Applications will not be considered if insufficient
 notice is given (not applicable for emergency flights e.g. flights on humanitarian grounds).

 5.1.3.4 Operators, other than operators of business aviation aircraft as stated in para 4.1.3.5, should schedule their
 arrivals and departures at Singapore Changi Airport outside the hours 0001 to 0200 UTC (0801-1000 LT) and
 0900 to 1559 UTC (1700-2359 LT). Subject to approval (depending on aircraft stand availability), aircraft may
 be permitted to remain on the ground during the above times on condition that the aircraft vacates the aircraft
 stand if the need arises. (Please see GEN 4.1 para 1.5 b) regarding off-peak discount of 40% on landing
 charges).


 AIP AMDT 03/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.2-5
 30 JAN 2020

 All business aviation aircraft operating as executive jet charter may be permitted to remain on the ground or
 layover at Singapore Changi Airport.

 All business aviation aircraft shall park in a nose-in position and be pushed back with the aid of an aircraft
 tow-bar and tow-tractor. Reverse thrust or variable pitch propellers shall not be used when parking or pushing
 back aircraft. The aircraft operator must ensure that an appropriate tow-bar for the aircraft type is available to
 facilitate push back operations from the aircraft stand. The aircraft operators may use their own tow-bar or
 approach ground handling agents in either Seletar or Singapore Changi Airport to secure the appropriate tow-bar.
 All passengers of the business aviation flight will have to clear CIQ via the Commercially-Important-Persons
 facility located beside Terminal 2.

 Requests to handle executive jet charter or charter flights via the main terminals are to be sent via email to
 csc@changiairport.com for exceptional consideration at all times.

 All business aviation flights must engage aground handling agent at Singapore Changi Airport.
	 The appropriate legislation dealing with non-scheduled flights for hire or reward is contained in PART III -
 Permits For Journeys Other Than Scheduled Journeys of the Air Navigation (Licensing of Air Services)
 Regulations. Any person who uses any aircraft in contravention of the provisions of Regulation 15 of the legislation
 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding S$2,500 or to imprisonment
 for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both and in the case of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
 exceeding S$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

 	Permit Fees

 (a) Normal Permits:

 The following fees shall be paid to the Authority [in accordance with Regulation 18 of the Air Navigation (Licensing
 of Air Services) Regulations] to obtain a permit which must be applied at least 3 whole working days before the
 first flight:

 i. S$84 for a single one-way or return flight;
 ii. S$162 for 2 or more one-way or return flights but not more than 5 such flights;
 iii. S$326 for 5 one-way or return flights but not more than 10 such flights; or
 iv. S$810 for more than 10 one-way or return flights.

 (b) Express Permits:

 Operators who wish to obtain a permit under 3 working days, but at least 24 hours before the flight, should
 contact the Duty Officer at +65 98331775 and submit a complete application via this weblink:
 https://appserver1.caas.gov.sg/ATLAS. The following fee shall be paid:

 i. S$252 for a single one-way or return flight.

 Note 1: “Working Day” means:

 i. a period that begins at 8.30am and ends at 6pm on any Monday to Thursday that CAAS is open for
 business; and
 ii. a period that begins at 8.30am and ends at 5.30pm on any Friday that CAAS is open for business.

 Note 2: Any application that is made after the close of business shall be deemed to have been made on the
 next working day.

 Definitions:

 Non-scheduled flight - a flight for the carriage of passengers, mail or cargo by air for hire and reward on journeys
 other than scheduled.

 Business aviation flight - a flight that is owned and operated privately by a business corporation or chartered
 privately by business or corporate executives for non-revenue purposes.

 Charterer - a person, company or corporate body who charters the aircraft and whose name and address appear
 in the Aircraft Charter Agreement.

 Operator- in relation to an aircraft, the person for the time being having the business management of that aircraft.

 DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS FOR CLEARANCE OF AIRCRAFT
 Same requirements as for SCHEDULED FLIGHTS.



© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2020
GEN 1.2-6 AIP Singapore
30 JAN 2020

5.3 PERMIT CONDITIONS
5.3.1 The Director-General of Civil Aviation may attach such conditions to a permit as he considers necessary.

5.4 APPLICATION FOR DIPLOMATIC CLEARANCE FOR FOREIGN STATE AIRCRAFT

5.4.1 Procedures for Applying Diplomatic Clearance for Landing and Overflight for Foreign
 State Aircraft in Singapore
5.4.1.1 Except where otherwise agreed, all Foreign State aircraft intending to land at or overfly Singapore are to obtain
 diplomatic clearance for such landing or overflight from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, giving information as in
 para 4.4.2.

5.4.1.2 The application is to be made giving at least 14 days’ notice.

5.4.2 Information to be provided when applying for Diplomatic Clearance
5.4.2.1 All applications for diplomatic clearance should contain the following information:

 a. Name of Mission/Organisation;
 b. Liaison Officer;
 c. Telephone Number;
 d. Number and Type of Aircraft;
 e. Callsign;
 f. Aircraft Registration;
 g. Full flight itinerary;
 h. Route after entering and before leaving Singapore FIR;
 i. Date of Arrival;
 j. Time of Arrival;
 k. Date of Departure;
 l. Time of Departure;
 m. Arrival from;
 n. Departing to;
 o. Airfield requested;
 p. Name of Pilot;
 q. Number of Crew;
 r. Number of Passengers;
 s. If VIP flight, Name of VIP and number of other officials;
 t. Purpose;
 u. Photograph and sensory equipment if any;
 v. Nature of freight or cargoes carried if any;
 w. Dangerous cargoes, if any (e.g. arms, ammunition, explosives, toxic chemicals);
 x. Types of services required (e.g. type of fuel, APU/GPU, ground handling etc.);
 y. Additional/Special request

 Note: Aircraft used in military, customs or police services are deemed to be State aircraft.

6 APPLICATION FOR TEST FLIGHTS
6.1 All applications for test flights are subject to prior approval.

6.2 All applications are to be made at least 2 working days but not more than 2 weeks in advance. If notice is not
 complied with, the application may not be considered.

6.3 Applicants should provide details as listed in items a. to e. below and ensure that the documents as listed in
 items f. to h. of the aircraft undergoing test flights remain valid during the period of operation:

 a. Aircraft Registration;
 b. Aircraft Callsign;
 c. Aircraft Type;
 d. Date / Time / Duration of flight;
 e. Point of Departure and Arrival;
 f. Certificate of Registration;
 g. Certificate of Airworthiness;
 h. A Permit to Fly, issued by CAAS, in the absence of a valid Certificate of Airworthiness.




AIP AMDT 01/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.2-7
 30 JAN 2020

6.4 All applications should be submitted to:

 Post:
 Duty Manager, Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 60 Biggin Hill Road, Singapore 509950
 Email: caas_atsops@caas.gov.sg
 Fax: 65457526

6.5 Details on flight planning for test flights are listed at ENR 1.10 FLIGHT PLANNING.

7 AIRCRAFT BANNED FROM OPERATIONS AT SINGAPORE AERODROMES
7.1 The Antonov-12 aircraft is banned from all operations to/from Singapore aerodromes due to concerns over its
 continuing airworthiness.




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2020
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore GEN 1.3-1
 25 APR 2019


 GEN 1.3 ENTRY, TRANSIT AND DEPARTURE OF PASSENGERS AND CREW

1 CUSTOMS REQUIREMENTS
1.1 The Red and Green Channel system is operated at the Airport to expedite customs clearance of arriving air
 passengers. All arriving passengers shall present themselves personally with their baggage and make oral
 declarations at the Red Channel if they have any prohibited or controlled goods or goods exceeding their duty-free
 concession and Goods and Services Tax (GST) import relief. If they do not have any of such goods, they may
 leave the Arrival Hall through the Green Channel. However, selective checks may be conducted on passengers
 going through the Green Channel. All crew members shall produce their baggage for clearance at the Red
 Channel only. Departing passengers are not subject to Customs formalities unless required to do so. Baggage
 may be examined in such manner as deemed necessary and it shall be the duty of the person in charge of the
 baggage to produce, open, unpack and repack such baggage.

1.2 Dutiable Goods. All dutiable goods brought into Singapore are subject to customs duty and/or excise duty and
 GST. There are 4 categories of dutiable goods: Intoxicating liquors; tobacco products; motor vehicles; and motor
 fuel. Please refer to the Singapore Customs’ website for the latest list of dutiable goods and their respective
 duty rates. There is no customs duty on goods exported from Singapore.

1.3 Duty-Free Allowance. Travellers are entitled to duty-free concession for liquors if they meet all the following
 conditions:

 - Is 18 years of age and above;
 - Have spent 48 hours or more outside Singapore immediately before arrival;
 - Not arriving from Malaysia;
 - The liquor is for personal consumption; and
 - The liquor is not prohibited from import into Singapore.

 Bona-fide crew members are granted duty-free concession on 0.25 litre of spirits and 1 litre of wine or 1 litre of
 beer.

1.4 GST Taxable Goods. All goods brought into Singapore are subject to GST, at the prevailing rate of 7 percent.
 GST is levied on the value of goods, which may include the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) plus other chargeable
 costs and the duty payable (if applicable).

1.5 GST Import Relief. Travellers (excluding crew members and holders of a work permit, employment pass,
 student pass, dependent pass or long-term pass issued by the Singapore Government), are granted GST import
 relief on new articles, souvenirs, gifts and food preparations brought into Singapore. These goods must be
 intended for traveller's personal use or consumption and not for sale. The GST import relief amount is based
 on the number of hours the traveller has spent outside Singapore

 There is no GST import relief and duty-free concession on intoxicating liquor and tobacco products, as well as
 goods imported for commercial purposes.

 For more information on duty-free concession and GST import relief, please visit Singapore Customs’ website.

1.6 Declaration and Payment of Duty and/or GST. Arriving travellers are required to declare and pay the duty
 and GST to bring in dutiable and taxable goods exceeding their duty-free concession and GST import relief.
 For convenience, you are encouraged to make an advance declaration and payment of duties and GST prior
 to your arrival through our Customs@SG mobile app or web portal. Once tax payment is successful, the app
 will create an e-receipt in your mobile device and you may exit the Arrival Hall via the Green Channel. If you are
 stopped for checks, you can show the e-receipt stored in your mobile device as proof of payment to the officers.


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
GEN 1.3-2 AIP Singapore
25 APR 2019

 Please visit Singapore Customs’ website for more information on the Customs@SG mobile app and web portal.
 Alternatively, you may proceed directly to the Customs Tax Payment Office or the Red Channel upon arrival to
 declare your goods. Please present supporting documents such as invoices or receipts indicating the value of
 your goods to facilitate declaration and payment (if necessary).

1.7 Goods Requiring a Customs Import Permit. A valid Customs import permit is required for clearance if
 travellers are carrying (but not limited to):

 - More than 0.4 kilogrammes of cigarettes or other tobacco products;
 - More than 10 litres of liquor products;
 - More than 0.5 kilogrammes of investment precious metals for personal use;
 - More than 10 litres of motor fuel;
 - Goods for trade or commercial use the GST on which exceeds S$300; or
 - Goods clearly marked as trade samples (excluding liquors and tobacco products) the value of which
 exceeds S$400

1.8 Prohibited Goods. The following items are NOT allowed to be imported into Singapore. Some examples of
 prohibited goods include (but not limited to):

 - Chewing gum (except approved oral dental and medicated gum by Singapore's Health Sciences Authority)
 - Chewing tobacco and imitation tobacco products (e.g. electronic cigarettes, etc)
 - Nasal snuff
 - Oral snuff (including snus and dipping tobacco)
 - Gutkha, Khaini and Zarda
 - Shisha
 - Smokeless cigars, smokeless cigarillos or smokeless cigarettes
 - Dissolvable tobacco or nicotine. Any product containing nicotine or tobacco that may be used topically
 for application, by implant or injected into any parts of the body
 - Any solution or substance, of which tobacco or nicotine is a constituent, that is intended to be used with
 an electronic nicotine delivery system or vaporizers
 - Cigarette lighters of pistol or revolver shape
 - Controlled drugs and psychotropic substances
 - Endangered species of wildlife and their by-products
 - Firecrackers
 - Obscene articles, publications, video tapes/discs and software
 - Reproduction of copyright publications, video tapes, video compact discs, laser discs, records or cassettes
 - Seditious and treasonable materials

 It is an offence to attempt to bring prohibited goods into Singapore.

1.9 Controlled Goods. You are required to obtain an import permit or authorisation form from the relevant Competent
 Authorities before you can bring controlled goods into Singapore. Please produce the goods and the import
 permit or authorisation form to the checking officer at the Red Channel on your arrival. Some examples of
 controlled goods include (but not limited to):

 - Animals, birds, fish and their products
 - CDs, DVDs, films and video games
 - Arms and explosives
 - Medicines and pharmaceutical products
 - Telecommunication and radio communication equipment

 Please visit Customs website for more information on controlled and prohibited goods .

2 IMMIGRATION REQUIREMENTS
2.1 All passengers are required to present themselves with their travel documents for examination, and endorsements
 (if necessary). Every passenger must fill in a Disembarkation/Embarkation form (including one for each child)
 except Singaporeans, Permanent Residents and long term pass holders.

2.2 Any person entering Singapore from a place outside Singapore, or is leaving Singapore for a place outside
 Singapore (including aircrew entering or leaving Singapore on test flights) shall present to an immigration officer
 at an authorised airport, a valid passport or a valid travel document recognised by the Government of Singapore
 (in the case of an alien, a visa for Singapore where such a visa is required) with the exception of the following
 persons:

 a. A member of the Singapore Armed Forces travelling on duty;
 b. A member of such Visiting Forces as the Minister may determine;
 c. Any child or person who is included in the passport or other travel document of a parent of the child, or of
 a spouse or other relative of the person and is accompanying that parent, spouse or relative (as the case
 may be) when travelling to and leaving from Singapore.

AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.3-3
 25 APR 2019

2.3 Nationals of the following countries require visas for the purpose of social visits in Singapore (with exception of
 an aircrew who is an airline crew member that, in the course of a journey on duty from a place outside Singapore
 to Singapore, or from a place outside Singapore to a place outside Singapore, calls at an authorised airport):
 - Afghanistan
 - Algeria
 - Bangladesh
 - Commonwealth of Independent States i.e. Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
 Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan
 - Democratic People's Republic of Korea
 - Egypt
 - Georgia
 - India
 - Iran
 - Iraq
 - Jordan
 - Kosovo
 - Lebanon
 - Libya
 - Mali
 - Morocco 
 - Nigeria
 - People's Republic of China
 - Pakistan
 - Saudi Arabia 
 - Somalia
 - Sudan
 - Syria
 - Tunisia
 - Turkmenistan
 - Ukraine
 - Yemen

 Visitors holding Hong Kong Document of Identity, Macao Special Administrative Region (MSAR) Travel Permit,
 Palestinian Authority Passport, Refugee Travel Document issued by the Middle-East countries and Temporary
 Passport issued by United Arab Emirates will also require a visa to enter Singapore.

 Holders of diplomatic, official and service passports do not need a visa for entry.

 Holders of diplomatic, public affairs and service passports do not need a visa for entry.

 Holders of diplomatic and official passports do not need a visa for entry

   Holders of diplomatic passports do not need a visa for entry

 These travel documents are subjected to assessment of recognition for entry into Singapore

 Nationals of Commonwealth of Independent States (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
 Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), Georgia, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine may qualify for the 96-hour
 visa free transit facility (VFTF) provided that:

 a. the person is in transit to a third country;
 b. the person holds a valid passport, confirmed onward air-ticket, entry facilities (including visa) to the third
 country and have sufficient funds for the period of stay in Singapore;
 c. the person continues his journey to the third country within 96 hours visa free period granted; and
 d. the person satisfies Singapore's entry requirements.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
GEN 1.3-4 AIP Singapore
25 APR 2019

 Nationals of India and the PRC may qualify for the 96-hour VFTF provided that:

 a. the person is in transit to or from a third country via Singapore by any mode of transport and will depart
 via air or sea;

 b. the person holds a valid passport and confirmed onward air/ferry/cruise ticket for departure from Singapore
 within 96 hours;

 c. the person has a valid visa/long-term pass (with a validity of at least 1 month from the date of entry into
 Singapore under the VFTF) issued by any of the following countries:

 - Australia
 - Canada
 - Germany
 - Japan
 - New Zealand
 - Switzerland
 - United Kingdom
 - United States of America


 A visa is considered valid so long as it is good for entry into one of the eight countries listed above. Travellers
 with Single Journey Visas (SJV) may still be granted VFTF on the return leg of their journey (i.e. after the SJV
 is used and no longer valid), but:

 - the person must travel directly from the country that issued the SJV, en route through Singapore, back to
 their home country
 - the person must not have returned to their home country since they last used the SJV.


2.4 Visitors must satisfy the following basic entry requirements before they are allowed to enter Singapore:

 a. They are in possession of valid passports with at least 6 months’ validity with assurance of their re-entry
 into their countries of residence or origin;
 b. They have sufficient funds to last for the intended period of stay in Singapore;
 c. They hold confirmed onward/return tickets and entry facilities (including visas) to their onward destinations;
 and
 d. They have a Yellow Fever Vaccination Certificate, if applicable.

 The granting of social visit passes to all visitors is determined by the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority (ICA)
 officers at the point of entry.

3 PUBLIC HEALTH REQUIREMENTS
3.1 Strict compliance with the provisions of the International Health Regulations, 2005, of the World Health
 Organisation, and Singapore's Infectious Diseases Act is required.

3.2 The pilot-in-command of an aircraft landing at Airports in Singapore shall furnish the Airport Health Officer with
 one copy of the General Declaration form (see ICAO Annex 9 Appendix 1) and one copy of the Passenger
 Manifest (see ICAO Annex 9 Appendix 2) signed by the pilot-in-command.

3.3 Vaccination Certificate Requirements for entry into Singapore are as follows:

 A valid International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required from travellers above one year of age
 who have been in or have passed through any country with risk of yellow fever transmission in the six days
 before arriving in Singapore. The certificate is valid for life, beginning from 10 days after the date of vaccination
 (this applies to existing and new certificates). An exemption letter, signed by a medical practitioner, is required
 for individuals who are exempted from being vaccinated before entry into Singapore. Please refer to Singapore's
 Immigration & Checkpoints Authority website for the updated list of countries with risk of yellow fever transmission.




AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.3-5
 25 APR 2019

4 FLYING LICENCES AND RATINGS

4.1 VISITING PILOTS - HOLDERS OF NON-SINGAPORE PILOT LICENCES
4.1.1 When a holder of a non-Singapore pilot’s licence wishes to fly on a Singapore registered aircraft in a private
 capacity in Singapore, he will be required to apply for a Certificate of Validation for his foreign licence. The
 Certificate of Validation, if approved, will be issued for this purpose only and for a limited period. The applicant
 would also be required to fulfil certain conditions. Pilots who wish to apply for a Certificate of Validation should
 contact the Personnel Licensing Section of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (see address in paragraph
 4.2.2 below)

4.2 CONVERSION OF FOREIGN LICENCE TO SINGAPORE LICENCE
4.2.1 Pilots holding valid licences, including an instrument rating and/or flying instructor’s rating issued by ICAO
 Contracting States, may be considered for the conversion of their licences under the following conditions:

 a. The pilot must demonstrate formal prospective employment by a Singapore air operator, approved training
 organisation or flying club to operate on Singapore registered aircraft.
 (This requirement will not be applicable for the conversion of a foreign licence to a Singapore PPL.)

 b. The pilot’s foreign licence and its associated ratings must be valid from the time of application to the time
 of issue of a Singapore licence and its associated ratings.

 c. The pilot must fulfil all conversion terms as specified by CAAS within a period of 6 months preceding the
 issue of a Singapore licence and its associated ratings.



4.2.2 Further details on the conversion of a foreign licence can be obtained from:

 Safety Policy and Planning Division
 Personnel Licensing Section
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 Singapore Changi Airport Terminal 2
 South Finger Pier Level 3
 Unit No. 038-039
 Singapore 819643

 TEL: (65) 65412482
 FAX: (65) 65434941

4.3 PILOTS WHO HAVE ATTAINED THE AGE OF 65
4.3.1 Any pilot who has attained his 65th birthday shall not be permitted to act as pilot-in-command or co-pilot of an
 aircraft engaged in scheduled or non-scheduled international commercial air transport operations within Singapore
 airspace.

 GEN 1.4 ENTRY, TRANSIT AND DEPARTURE OF CARGO

1 CUSTOMS REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING CARGO AND OTHER ARTICLES
1.1 The following supporting documents: Airway Bill, Invoice, Packing List together with Customs Permits [for all
 goods including controlled goods, dutiable goods and goods subject to Goods and Services Tax (GST)] are to
 be produced if they are required for checks by Immigration and Checkpoints Authority officers at the checkpoint.

1.2 The following are applicable to the Free Trade Zone (FTZ):

 a. Transhipment within the same FTZ (In Through Airway Bill cases), no Customs documentation is required
 if the items are not controlled by the Competent Authorities (CAs);
 b. Transhipment of controlled goods within the same FTZ (In Through Airway Bill cases), a transshipment
 (Through transshipment within the same FTZ) permit is required; and
 c. Import for re-export within the same FTZ (In Non-Through Airway Bill cases), an import permit is required
 for the importation of goods into the FTZ and an export permit is required for the exportation of goods from
 the same FTZ.


1.3 Under the Strategic Goods (Control) Act (SGCA), goods in transhipment or transit are subject to controls under
 the full control list. No clearance documents are required for strategic goods in transhipment or transit which
 are taken into a FTZ immediately after they have been brought into Singapore and stay in the FTZ for not more
 than 45-days (for sea) / 21-days (for air) except for certain categories of goods. For transhipment and transit of
 certain sensitive strategic goods (listed under the Fourth and Fifth Schedule of the SGCR) and goods that are
 intended or likely to be used for nuclear, chemical or biological weapon purposes, or missiles capable of delivering
 such weapons (i.e. catch-all for WMD purposes), a strategic good permit is still required. Depending on the
 conditions stated in the permits, these goods may be required to be presented for Customs clearance at the
 checkpoint

1.4 For the exportation of dutiable goods from a Licensed Warehouse, or non-dutiable goods from a Zero-GST
 Warehouse, Customs outward permits are to be presented for checkpoint inspection and clearance.

1.5 For the importation and exportation of controlled goods, depending on the Competent Authorities’(CA)
 requirements, these goods may be required to be presented for Customs clearance at the checkpoint. For more
 information on the list of Controlled and Prohibited Goods for the importation and exportation of goods, please
 visit the respective pages on the Singapore Customs website. You may also refer to the Strategic Goods and
 the United Nations Security Council Sanctions webpages for more information on the relevant topics.

2 VETERINARY, ANIMALS, BIRDS, MEAT, FISH AND PLANT QUARANTINE
 REQUIREMENTS
2.1 Prior permission of the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority (AVA) is required for import, export or transshipment
 of:

 a. Animals, birds, eggs, meat and meat products(including canned or processed meat), animal products,
 veterinary biological, fertilizers containing animal products;

 b. Fish (for human consumption as well as for aquaria), fisheries products (in all forms), aquatic animals (alive
 or dead).

 c. Plants and propagatable plant parts including cuttings, seeds and bulbs with or without potting medium,
 organic fertilisers of plant origin, live insects and microorganisms. Plant produce including cutflowers, fruits
 and vegetables from the American Tropics (between Lat 23 1 / 2°N and 23 1 / 2 °S).


2.2 In the case of live animals, prior permission is also required for animals in transit. No prior permission required
 for transshipment of plants and plant products.

2.3 Prior permission of the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority (AVA) is required for the import and export of all
 species of wild animals and plants and their parts or derivatives protected under the Convention on International
 Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2019
GEN 1.4-2 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

3 REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES
3.1 The import, export and transhipment of all arms, explosives, component parts, munitions and weapons including
 swords, sword-sticks, kukris, parangs, daggers, spears, spear-heads, toy pistols, airguns, etc. are strictly
 controlled. Permits must be obtained and applications should be made to the Arms and Explosives Branch,
 Commissioner of Singapore Police, Block J, Kinloss Complex, No 3 Ladyhill Road, Singapore 258672 (Fax:
 65-67340531) at least 2 weeks before the intended date of air carriage. Severe penalties are provided for
 non-compliance of requirements.

4 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CARRIAGE OF DANGEROUS GOODS AND MUNITIONS
 OF WAR (INCLUDING ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES) IN AIRCRAFT

4.1 DANGEROUS GOODS
4.1.1 Paragraph 50D of the Air Navigation Order state that dangerous goods shall not be carried or have loaded in
 an aircraft unless the operator of the aircraft has been granted with a dangerous goods permit granted by the
 Director-General of Civil Aviation and in accordance with any conditions which may be imposed. This provision
 applies to all aircraft flying to, from or over the Republic of Singapore, and to Singapore registered aircraft
 wherever they may be. Where an operator of an aircraft has diplomatic clearance from the Ministry of Foreign
 Affairs to land the aircraft in Singapore, the operator is not required, for the period of time that the diplomatic
 clearance is valid, to obtain a dangerous goods permit.

4.1.2 A dangerous goods permit, if granted, is subject to compliance with Annex 18 to the Convention on International
 Civil Aviation and the latest edition of the ICAO Technical Instructions relating to the Safe Transport of Dangerous
 Goods by Air.

4.1.3 Operators who wish to carry dangerous goods should submit their applications to the address below, in the
 prescribed form, giving full details of the consignment:

 Flight Standards Division
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 Singapore Changi Airport
 P.O.Box 1, Singapore 918141
 FAX: (65) 65456519
 TEL: (65) 65413487

 Each application must be supported by a shipper's declaration form, airway bill and commercial invoice. All
 airline operators planning to carry dangerous goods to, from or through Singapore may request for the application
 forms from Flight Standards Division, CAAS (email: CAAS_dangerousgoods@caas.gov.sg). These applications
 should be submitted at least 7 working days before the intended date of carriage.

4.2 MUNITIONS OF WAR
4.2.1 Paragraph 50C of the Air Navigation Order states that munitions of war shall not be carried or have loaded in
 an aircraft unless the operator of the aircraft has been granted with a munitions of war permit granted by the
 Director-General of Civil Aviation and in accordance with any conditions which may be imposed. This provision
 applies to all aircraft flying to, from or over the Republic of Singapore, and to Singapore registered aircraft
 wherever they may be. Where an operator of an aircraft has diplomatic clearance from the Ministry of Foreign
 Affairs to land the aircraft in Singapore, the operator is not required, for the period of time that the diplomatic
 clearance is valid, to obtain a munitions of war permit.

4.2.2 Applications for such permit should be submitted to the Director-General of Civil Aviation at least 7 working days
 before the intended date of carriage to the address indicated in paragraph 4.1.3 above. Application forms can
 be obtained from Flight Standards Division, CAAS (email: CAAS_dangerousgoods@caas.gov.sg).

4.2.3 Each application for permit to carry munitions of war to, from and/or through Singapore, should be in the prescribed
 form and supported by an airway bill, commercial invoice, import/export and/or end-user certificate from the
 final destination. In Singapore, only entities licensed under the Arms and Explosives Act are allowed to engage
 in the import, export and transhipment of Munitions of War in Singapore.

5 REPORTING OF DANGEROUS GOODS ACCIDENT/INCIDENT
5.1 Operators are required to submit a written report to the CAAS within 24 hours of the occurrence coming to the
 knowledge of the person making the report in the event of any dangerous goods accident, dangerous goods
 incident or the finding of undeclared or mis declared munitions of war or dangerous goods in cargo or passenger's
 baggage on board any aircraft operated by that operator.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.4-3
 15 AUG 2019

5.2 When any dangerous goods accident occurs on board any Singapore aircraft, or any aircraft that lands in or
 departs from Singapore, the operator of that aircraft should notify CAAS immediately through the most expeditious
 means (i.e. Telephone call or SMS etc.) and submit a written notification within 3 hours from immediate notification.
 The initial report may be made by any means but a written report utilising Part 4 of CAAS AW139 form, including
 all relevant documents, should be sent as soon as possible and which shall in any case be within 24 hours, even
 if all the information is not available. The report should then be updated as soon as more information becomes
 available.

5.3 Where any information referred to in paragraph 5.4 below is not in the possession of the person making a report,
 that person shall dispatch the information in a form as specified by the Chief Executive, and by the quickest
 available means within 24 hours of the information coming into his possession.

5.4 A report required shall contain such of the following information as is appropriate to the occurrence:
 a. date of the occurrence;
 b. State of the operator;
 c. State of origin;
 d. State of registry;
 e. location of the occurrence, flight number and flight date;
 f. description of the goods and the reference number of the airway bill, pouch, baggage tag and ticket;
 g. proper shipping name (including the technical name, if applicable);
 h. UN or ID number, whichever is applicable;
 i. class or division of the goods in accordance with the Technical Instructions and any subsidiary risk;
 j. type of packaging and the packaging specification marking;
 k. quantity of the munitions of war or dangerous goods;
 l. name and address of the shipper or passenger;
 m. suspected cause of the occurrence;
 n. action taken upon discovery of the occurrence, including any mitigation measures;
 o. any serious injury, death or damage of property caused by the occurrence;
 p. any other reporting action taken;
 q. name, title, address and contact number of the reporter;
 r. any other relevant details.


5.5 All formal written notifications shall be made by the air operator through the submission of the Part 4 of CAAS
 AW139 form in an email to CAAS at “caas_dfirs@caas.gov.sg”or in any other manner acceptable to CAAS.
 Providing it is safe to do so, all dangerous goods, packaging, documents, etc., relating to the occurrence must
 be retained by the operator and its agent until CAAS authorises its release.

5.6 The prescribed form above is available on the CAAS website from the following link below:
 http://www.caas.gov.sg/caas/en/eServices_Forms/sai_reporting.html?_locale=en

5.7 The existing CAAS FO130 (Dangerous Goods Occurrence Report) form has been discontinued from 1st April
 2011.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore GEN 1.5-1
 12 NOV 2015


GEN 1.5 AIRCRAFT INSTRUMENTS, EQUIPMENT AND FLIGHT DOCUMENTS

1 MANDATORY CARRIAGE AND OPERATION OF AIRBORNE COLLISION AVOIDANCE
 SYSTEM (ACAS II)
1.1 In pursuant to ICAO Annex 6, Part 1,Chapter 6, all turbine-engined aeroplanes of a maximum certified take-off
 mass in excess of 5700 kg or authorised to carry more than 19 passengers flying within the Singapore FIR shall
 be equipped with an airborne collision avoidance system (ACAS II) and to operate the ACAS system in accordance
 with the relevant provisions of Annex 10, Volume IV, Chapter 4.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore GEN 1.6-1
 26 MAR 2020


2 TAXATION IN THE FIELD OF INTERNATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT

2.1 Petroleum exemptions and income tax
 a. Petroleum for aircraft is granted Goods and Services Tax (GST) relief under item 11 of the Schedule to
 the GST (Imports Relief) Order (2001 Rev Ed.).

 b. The matter of income tax on air transport is contained within Section 12(2) of the Income Tax Act (2014
 Rev Ed.).

 Where a non-resident person carries on either:

 i. the business of shipowner or charterer, or

 ii. the business of air transport,

 and any ship or aircraft owned or chartered by him calls at a port, an aerodrome or an airport in
 Singapore, his full profits arising from the carriage of passengers, mail, livestock or goods shipped,
 or loaded into an aircraft, in Singapore shall be deemed to accrue in Singapore.

 This subsection shall not apply to passengers, mail, livestock or goods which are brought to
 Singapore solely for transhipment, or for transfer from one aircraft to another or from an aircraft to
 a ship or from a ship to an aircraft.




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2020
GEN 1.6-4 AIP Singapore
26 MAR 2020

2.2 Capital gains tax, or income on wealth, etc.
 There is no capital gains tax, or income on wealth, etc., which are chargeable on the sale or use of international
 air transport.




AIP AMDT 02/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.7-1
 03 JAN 2019


GEN 1.7 DIFFERENCES FROM ICAO STANDARDS, RECOMMENDED PRACTICES
 AND PROCEDURES
ANNEX 1 Personnel Licensing, 12th Edition

 Chapter 2 (10th edition, Amendment 169)

 2.3.3.1.2 Due to local geographical constraints and boundary, it is not possible to complete
 one cross-country flight totalling not less than 270km (150NM) in the course of
 which full- stop landings at two different aerodromes are made. In such cases,
 a Private Pilot Licence with restriction to fly within Singapore only will be issued.

 2.8.2.1 Singapore issues two types of ratings for flying instructors: Flying Instructor
 Rating and Assistant Flying Instructor Rating. Both ratings meet the ICAO
 standards for flying instructors. Newly qualified instructors are issued with an
 Assistant Flying Instructor Rating, and may qualify for a Flying Instructor Rating
 after acquiring additional flying and instructional experience.

 An Assistant Flying Instructor Rating does not entitle the holder to:

 a. give flying instructions unless under the supervision of a person holding a
 Flying Instructor Rating; or
 b. give directions in respect of the student pilot’s first solo day/night flight and
 first solo cross-country day/night flight.

 2.9.1.1 The applicant for a Commercial Pilot Licence (Gliders) shall not be less than 18
 years of age.

 2.10.1.1 The applicant for a Private Pilot Licence (Balloons and Airships) shall not be less
 than 17 years of age. The applicant for a Commercial Pilot Licence (Balloons
 and Airships) shall not be less than 18 years of age.

ANNEX 2 Rules of the Air, 10th Edition

 Appendix 3 (Amendment 42)

 VFR or IFR flights when operating in uncontrolled airspace within certain parts of the Singapore FIR at or above
 3,000ft and below FL250 are required to use the cruising levels specified in the quadrantal table of cruising levels
 (quadrantal rule) as shown in page ENR 1.7-5 para 4.4.

DOC 4444 Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Air Traffic Management,15th Edition (PANS-ATM)

 - NIL Difference

DOC 7030 Regional Supplementary Procedures, 5th Edition

 MID/ASIA REGIONAL SUPPLEMENTARY PROCEDURES

 1.2.1 Flights shall be conducted in accordance with the Instrument Flight Rules (even
 when not operating in instrument meteorological conditions) when operated:

 a. Above FL200.

ANNEX 3 Meteorological Service for International Air Navigation, 20th Edition

 Chapter 4 (Amendment 75)

 4.3.2(a) The automated weather observing system (AWOS) provides for visual display
 system at the appropriate ATS units (corresponding to the visual display system
 in the meteorological station) showing real-time weather conditions at appropriate
 locations along the runways. The ATS units use these real-time weather conditions
 for aircraft landing and take-off. The information provided by the visual display
 system at the ATS units is used in place of specifically-formatted local routine
 reports.



ANNEX 9 Facilitation, 15th Edition

 Chapter 3

 3.25 Singapore issues single, double, triple, or multiple journey visas, some with
 validity of less than six months.

 3.26 Singapore adopts an electronic visa system (e-Visa) to retrieve information to
 verify the identity of the visa holder.

 3.27 All non-citizens and non-residents are required to complete a Disembarkation
 or Embarkation Card on arrival and departure.

 3.46 Special Pass may be issued to an inadmissible passenger to enable him to apply
 for travel documents from the relevant diplomatic mission. In such cases, the
 aircraft operator shall continue to be responsible for the custody and care of the
 passenger.

 3.66 With effect from 27 Aug 2007, air crew who arrive in Singapore on crew duty
 and seeking temporary entry into Singapore are required to produce their
 passports for immigration clearance. However, their passports will not be
 endorsed. Crew who are nationals of countries that require visa to enter Singapore
 will continue to be exempted from the visa requirements if they arrive in Singapore
 as part of their crew duty or to join their assigned flights for the purpose of
 performing their crew duty.

 Chapter 5

 5.9.1 The cost of custody and care of inadmissible persons pending their removal shall
 be borne by the aircraft operator.

AIP AMDT 02/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.7-3
 26 MAR 2020

 5.18 The obligations, responsibilities, and costs associated with the removal of
 deportees are a shared responsibility. Singapore works closely with foreign
 diplomatic missions to facilitate the removal of deportees.

 5.23 A valid travel document is required before any special consideration can be given
 to the admission of such persons. For Permanent Residents, an entry permit and
 valid travelling documents are required before entry is granted.

 5.27 An application for a travel document has to be duly signed by the applicant before
 the travel document can be issued.

 5.29 The required travel document to facilitate the return of the national will be issued
 upon confirmation of the person's Singapore Citizenship status.

ANNEX 10 Aeronautical Telecommunications

 Volume I (Radio Navigation Aids) - 7th Edition

 Volume II (Communication Procedures including those with PANS status) - 7th Edition

 Volume III (Communication Systems) - 2nd Edition

 Part I - Digital Data Communication Systems

 Part II - Voice Communication Systems

 Volume IV (Surveillance and Collision Avoidance Systems) - 5th Edition

 Volume V (Aeronautical Radio Frequency Spectrum Utilization) - 3rd Edition

 - NIL Difference

ANNEX 11 Air Traffic Services,15th Edition

 Chapter 4 (Amendment 47)

 4.3.6.1(g) The AWOS systems at the airports have visual display systems at the relevant
 ATS units showing real-time weather conditions at appropriate locations along
 the runways. The ATS units use these real-time weather conditions for aircraft
 landing and take-off. However, specifically formatted MET REPORT and
 SPECIAL as described in Annex 3 paragraphs 4.3.2(a) and 4.4.2(a) are not
 prepared.

ANNEX 12 Search and Rescue, 8th Edition

 - NIL Difference


ANNEX 13 Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation, 11th Edition

 Chapter 5 (Amendment 13)

 5.1.2 ICAO requires States to investigate serious incident involving aircraft of a
 maximum certificated take-off (MCT) mass of over 2250kg. With effect from 2
 August 2010, Singapore requires all serious incidents to be investigated,
 regardless of the aircraft’s MCT mass.




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2020
GEN 1.7-4 AIP Singapore
26 MAR 2020

ANNEX 14 Aerodromes

 Volume I (Aerodrome Design and Operations) - 8th Edition

 Chapter 3

 3.4.3 The words “wherever practicable” in Annex 14 paragraph 3.4.3 have been
 removed in our national regulations. Without exception, the width of the runway
 strip shall be 140m where the code number is 3 or 4; and 70m where the code
 number is 1 or 2.

 Chapter 4

 4.2.1.4 For a precision approach runway category I, the inner approach surface; inner
 transitional surfaces; and balked landing surface shall be established, in addition
 to the conical surface; inner horizontal surface; approach surface and transitional
 surfaces.

 Chapter 6

 6.1.1.6 Annex 14 paragraph 6.1.1.6(c) which states that the marking may be omitted
 when the obstacle is lighted by high-intensity obstacle lights by day has been
 removed from our national regulations.

 Chapter 7

 7.4.1 Relating to the display of unserviceability markers, our national regulations require
 additionally that “unserviceability markers shall also be displayed at the entrances
 to a permanently or temporarily closed runway or taxiway, or part thereof”.

 Chapter 9

 9.2.3 Relating to the level of rescue and fire fighting protection to be provided, the
 remission factor has been removed from our national regulations.

 Volume II (Heliports) - 4th Edition

 - Not applicable

ANNEX 15 Aeronautical Information Services, 16th Edition

 - NIL Difference

ANNEX 16 Environmental Protection

 Volume I (Aircraft Noise) - 8th Edition

 Volume II (Aircraft Engine Emissions) - 4th Edition

 - NIL Difference

ANNEX 17 Security - Safeguarding International Civil Aviation Against Acts of Unlawful Interference, 10th Edition

 - NIL Difference

ANNEX 18 The Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air, 4th Edition

 - NIL Difference

ANNEX 19 Safety Management, 1st Edition

 - NIL Difference




AIP AMDT 02/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 2.1-1
 12 NOV 2015



 GEN 2 TABLES AND CODES


 GEN 2.1 MEASURING SYSTEM, AIRCRAFT MARKING, HOLIDAYS

1 UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
1.1 The table of units of measurement shown below is used for the dissemination of information and in messages
 transmitted to aircraft.

 Measurement of Units
 Distance used in navigation, position report, etc. Kilometres (km) or Nautical miles (NM)
 - generally in excess of 4000m
 Relatively short distances such as those relating to Metres (m)
 aerodromes (e.g. runway lengths)
 Altitudes, elevations and heights Metres (m) or Feet (ft)
 Horizontal speed including wind speed Knots (kt)
 Vertical speed Feet per minute (ft/min)
 Wind direction for landing and taking-off Degrees Magnetic (°M)
 Wind direction except for landing and taking-off Degrees True (°T)
 Visibility, including runway visual range Metres (m) or Kilometres (km)
 Altimeter Setting Hectopascals (hPa)
 Temperature Degrees Celsius (Centigrade) (°C)
 Weight Metric tonnes (t) or kilogrammes (kg)
 Time Hours and minutes, the day of 24 hours beginning
 at midnight UTC (hhmm)
 International nautical miles, for which conversion into metres is given by: 1 international NM = 1852 metres


2 TIME SYSTEM
2.1 Co-ordinated Universal Time (UTC) is used in the air traffic and communication services and in documents
 published for international distribution by the Aeronautical Information Service. Reporting of time is expressed
 to the nearest minute, e.g. 12:40:35 is reported as 1241. Local time is 8 hours ahead of UTC. Time checks to
 aircraft are accurate to within 30 seconds.

3 GEODETIC REFERENCE DATUM

3.1 Name/designation of datum
3.1.1 All published geographical coordinates in the Singapore FIR indicating latitude and longitude are expressed in
 terms of the World Geodetic System-1984 (WGS-84) geodetic reference datum.

3.2 Area of Application
3.2.1 The area of application for the published geographical coordinates coincides with the area of responsibility of
 the Aeronautical Information Service, i.e. the entire territory of Singapore as well as the airspace over the high
 seas encompassed by the Singapore Flight Information Region.

3.3 Use of asterisk
3.3.1 An asterisk () will be used to identify those published geographical coordinates which have been transformed
 into WGS-84 coordinates but whose accuracy of original field work does not meet the requirements in ICAO
 Annex 11, Chapter 2 and ICAO Annex 14, Volume I, Chapter 2. Specifications for determination and reporting
 of WGS-84 coordinates are given in ICAO Annex 11, Chapter 2 and ICAO Annex 14, Volume I, Chapter 2.

4 AIRCRAFT NATIONALITY AND REGISTRATION MARKS
4.1 The nationality mark for aircraft registered in Singapore is the figure 9, followed by the letter V, i.e. 9V. The
 nationality mark is followed by a hyphen and a registration mark consisting of a three letter group, e.g. 9V-BAA.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
GEN 2.1-2 AIP Singapore
10 OCT 2019

5 PUBLIC HOLIDAYS IN SINGAPORE
5.1 The following dates are notified as public holidays:

 Name of Holiday Date Day
 Deepavali 27 October 2019 Sunday
 Christmas Day 25 December 2019 Wednesday
 New Year's Day 01 January 2020 Wednesday
 Chinese New Year 25 January 2020 Saturday
 Chinese New Year 26 January 2020 Sunday
 Good Friday 10 April 2020 Friday
 Labour Day 01 May 2020 Friday
 Vesak Day 07 May 2020 Thursday
 Hari Raya Puasa 24 May 2020 Sunday
 Hari Raya Haji 31 July 2020 Friday
 National Day 09 August 2020 Sunday
 Deepavali 14 November 2020 Saturday
 Christmas Day 25 December 2020 Friday

 The following Monday will be a public holiday.




AIP AMDT 06/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 2.2-1
 02 MAR 2017


3.3 Amendment service to the AIP (AIP AMDT)
 AIP AMDT is published in accordance with the established regular intervals (see GEN 0.1-2 paragraph 3.2). It
 incorporates permanent changes to the AIP on the indicated publication date.

 A brief description of the amendments and changes made are provided in the AIP AMDT cover page.

 Each AIP AMDT cover page also includes references to the serial numbers of those elements, if any, of the
 Integrated Aeronautical Information Package which have been incorporated into the AIP by the amendment.

 Each AIP AMDT is allocated a serial number which is consecutive and based on the calendar year. The year,
 indicated by two digits, is a part of the serial number of the AIP AMDT.

3.4 AIP Supplement (AIP SUP)
 Temporary changes of long duration (3 months or more) and information of short duration which contains
 extensive text and/or graphics, supplementing the permanent information contained in the AIP, are published
 as AIP SUP. Operationally significant changes to the AIP are published in accordance with the AIRAC system
 and its established effective dates, and are identified clearly by the acronym AIRAC.

 Each AIP SUP (regular or AIRAC) is allocated a serial number which is consecutive and based on the calendar
 year.

 An AIP SUP is kept as long as all or some of its contents remain valid. The period of validity of the information
 contained in the AIP SUP will normally be given in the AIP SUP itself. Alternatively, NOTAM may be used to
 indicate changes to the period of validity or cancellation of the AIP SUP.

 The checklist of current AIP SUP is published in the monthly plain-language NOTAM List.

3.5 NOTAM and Pre-flight Information Bulletins (PIB)
 A NOTAM contains information concerning the establishment, condition or change in any aeronautical facility,
 service, procedure or hazard, the timely knowledge of which is essential to personnel engaged in flight operations.
 Each NOTAM contains information in the order shown in the ICAO NOTAM format and is composed of
 abbreviated phraseology assigned to the ICAO NOTAM code complemented by ICAO abbreviations, indicators,
 identifiers, designators, callsigns, frequencies, figures and plain language. NOTAM originated and issued for
 Singapore FIR are distributed in ‘A’ series.

 NOTAM are published as and when necessary to disseminate information of direct operational significance
 which:

 a. is of an ephemeral nature;
 b. requires advance distribution; or
 c. is appropriate to the AIP but needs immediate dissemination.

 Each NOTAM is assigned a 4-digit serial number preceded by the letter ‘A’ indicating the series, followed by a
 stroke and 2 digits indicating the year of issue. The serial numbers begin with 0001 every year. A checklist of
 current NOTAMs is issued every month via the AFS. Additionally, a monthly plain language list of valid NOTAM,
 including indications of the latest AIP Amendment, AIP Supplement, AIC issued and a checklist of current AIP
 Supplements is also retrievable online at https://aim-sg.caas.gov.sg

3.6 Aeronautical Information Circular (AIC)
 Aeronautical Information Circular (AIC) contains information on the long-term forecast of major change in
 legislation, regulations, procedures or facilities; information of a purely explanatory or advisory nature liable to
 affect flight safety; and information or notification of an explanatory or advisory nature concerning technical,
 legislative or purely administrative matters which is inappropriate to the AIP or NOTAM, and is published as
 required.

 Each AIC is numbered consecutively on a calendar year basis. The year, indicated by 2 digits, is a part of the
 serial number of the AIC. A checklist of current AIC is issued in the form of an AIC once a year.

3.7 Checklist and NOTAM List
 A checklist of current NOTAM is issued monthly via the AFS. A monthly NOTAM List containing the plain
 language presentation of current NOTAM, information on the latest AIP Amendment, AIP Supplement, AIC
 issued and a checklist for AIP Supplements is also available online.

4 AIRAC SYSTEM
4.1 In order to control and regulate operationally significant changes requiring amendments to charts, route manuals,
 etc., such changes, whenever possible, will be issued on predetermined dates according to the AIRAC SYSTEM.
 This type of information will be published in an AIRAC AIP Supplement.


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2019
GEN 3.1-4 AIP Singapore
10 OCT 2019

4.2 AIRAC information will be issued so that the information will be received by the user not later than 28 days, and
 for major changes not later than 56 days, before the effective date. 
 31 December

4.3 A TRIGGER NOTAM will be issued 10 days before the effective date of the AIRAC AIP Supplement giving a
 brief description of the contents of the AIP Supplement, the effective date and the reference number of the
 AIRAC AIP Supplement. This trigger NOTAM will come into force on the same effective date as the AIRAC AIP
 Supplement and will remain in force until 14 days after the effective date.

4.4 A NIL AIRAC NOTAM will be issued one cycle before the AIRAC effective date if no information is submitted
 for publication of an AIRAC AIP Supplement for an AIRAC effective date. The NIL AIRAC NOTAM will remain
 current for a duration of 14 days.


 GEN 3.2 AERONAUTICAL CHARTS

1 RESPONSIBLE SERVICES
1.1 The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore publishes a range of aeronautical charts for use by all types of civil
 aviation. The Aeronautical Information Services produces some of these charts which are part of the AIP. The
 charts published in the AIP are produced in accordance with the provisions contained in the ICAO documents
 listed in para 1.2. Differences to the provisions contained in ICAO Annex 4 - Aeronautical Charts are detailed
 in subsection GEN 1.7


2 MAINTENANCE OF CHARTS
2.1 Aeronautical charts published in the AIP are updated regularly. Significant changes or revisions in aeronautical
 information for other aeronautical charts are also included in the amendment.

2.2 Information found to be incorrect after publication will be corrected by an AIC or NOTAM if they are of operational
 significance.

3 AVAILABILITY OF CHARTS
3.1 The charts listed in paragraph 4.1 can be downloaded from AIM-SG URL: https://aim-sg.caas.gov.sg

4 AERONAUTICAL CHART SERIES AVAILABLE
4.1 The following series of aeronautical charts are produced:

 a. World Aeronautical Chart - ICAO;
 b. Aerodrome Chart - ICAO;
 c. Aerodrome Obstacle Chart - ICAO Type A (for each runway);
 d. Aerodrome Obstacle Chart - ICAO Type B;
 e. Precision Approach Terrain Chart - ICAO;
 f. Enroute Chart - ICAO;
 g. Area Chart - ICAO;
 h. Standard Departure Chart - Instrument (SID) - ICAO;
 i. Standard Arrival Chart - Instrument (STAR) - ICAO;
 j. Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO (for each runway and procedure type);
 k. Visual Approach Chart - ICAO

4.2 General description of each series

 a. World Aeronautical Chart - ICAO 1: 1 000 000

 This series is constructed on Lambert Conformal Conic Projection with two standard parallels at 0 deg
 40 min and 3 deg 20 min. The spheroid is World Geodetic System 1984 (WGS84). The aeronautical data
 shown have been kept to a minimum, consistent with the use of the chart for visual air navigation. It
 includes a selection of aerodromes, significant obstacles, elements of the ATS system, prohibited, restricted
 and danger areas, and radio navigation aids. The chart provides information to satisfy visual air navigation
 and is also used as a pre-flight planning chart.

 b. Aerodrome Chart - ICAO

 This chart contains detailed aerodrome data to provide flight crews with information that will facilitate the
 ground movement of aircraft:

 from the aircraft stand to the runway; and
 from the runway to the aircraft stand;

 It also provides essential operational information at Singapore Changi Airport and Seletar Aerodrome.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2019
GEN 3.2-2 AIP Singapore
31 MAR 2016

 c. Aerodrome Obstacle Chart - ICAO Type A (operating limitations)

 This chart contains detailed information on obstacles in the take-off flight path areas of Singapore Changi
 Airport, Seletar Aerodrome and Paya Lebar Airport. It is shown in plan and profile view. This obstacle
 information provides the data necessary to enable an operator to comply with the operating limitations of
 ICAO Annex 6, Parts l and ll, Chapter 5.

 d. Aerodrome Obstacle Chart - ICAO Type B

 This chart is produced to assist in the determination of critical heights for Singapore Changi Airport and
 Seletar Aerodrome.

 e. Precision Approach Terrain Chart - ICAO

 This chart provides detailed terrain profile information within a defined portion of the final approach so as
 to enable aircraft operating agencies to assess the effects of the terrain on decision height determination
 by the use of radio altimeters. This chart is produced for the precision approach Cat II runways at Singapore
 Changi Airport.

 f. Enroute Chart - ICAO

 This chart is produced for the entire Singapore FIR. The aeronautical data include all aerodromes,
 prohibited, restricted and danger areas and the air traffic services system in detail. This chart provides
 the flight crew with information to facilitate navigation along ATS routes in compliance with air traffic
 services procedures.

 g. Area Chart - ICAO

 This chart is produced when the air traffic services routes or position reporting requirements are complex
 and cannot be shown on the En-route Chart - ICAO. It shows, in more detail, those aerodromes that affect
 terminal routings, prohibited, restricted and danger areas and the air traffic services system. This chart
 provides the flight crew with information to facilitate the various phases of instrument flight:

 the transition between the en-route phase and the approach to an aerodrome;
 the transition between the take-off/missed approach and the en-route phase of flight; and
 flights through areas of complex ATS routes or airspace structure.


 h. Standard Departure Chart - Instrument (SID) - ICAO

 This chart is produced whenever a standard departure route - instrument has been established and cannot
 be shown with sufficient clarity on the Area Chart - ICAO.

 The aeronautical data shown include the aerodrome of departure, aerodrome(s) which affect the designated
 standard departure route-instrument, prohibited, restricted and danger areas and the air traffic services
 system. This chart provides the flight crew with information that will enable them to comply with the
 designated standard departure route-instrument from the take-off phase to the en-route phase.

 i. Standard Arrival Chart - Instrument (STAR) - ICAO

 This chart is produced whenever a standard arrival route - instrument has been established and cannot
 be shown with sufficient clarity on the Area Chart - ICAO.

 The aeronautical data shown include the aerodrome of landing, aerodrome(s) which affect the designated
 standard arrival route-instrument, prohibited, restricted and danger areas and the air traffic services
 system. This chart provides the flight crew with information that will enable them to comply with the
 designated arrival route-instrument from the en-route phase to the approach phase.

 j. Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO

 This chart is produced for all aerodromes used by civil aviation where instrument approach procedures
 have been established. A separate Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO has been provided for each
 approach procedure.

 The aeronautical data shown include information on aerodromes, prohibited, restricted and danger areas,
 radio communication facilities and navigation aids, minimum sector altitude, procedure track portrayed
 in plan and profile view, aerodrome operating minima, etc.

 This chart provides the flight crew with information that will enable them to perform an approved instrument
 approach procedure to the runway of intended landing including the missed approach procedure and
 where applicable, associated holding patterns.


AIP AMDT 02/2016 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 3.2-3
 31 MAR 2016

 k. Visual Approach Chart - ICAO

 This chart is produced for aerodromes used by civil aviation where:

 only limited navigation facilities are available; or
 radio communication facilities are not available; or
 no adequate aeronautical charts of the aerodrome and its surroundings at 1:500 000 or greater
 scale are available; or
 visual approach procedures have been established

 The aeronautical data shown include information on aerodromes obstacles, designated airspace, visual
 approach information, radio navigation aids and communication facilities, as appropriate.




© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2016
 GEN 3.2-4 AIP Singapore
 21 MAY 2020eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 5 LIST OF AERONAUTICAL CHARTS AVAILABLE
 GEN 3.2.5 LIST OF AERONAUTICAL CHARTS AVAILABLE
 Title of Chart Series Scale Name and/or number Price ($) Date
 World Aeronautical Chart 1:1 000 000 WAC 2860 In AIP 30 JAN 20
 ICAO (WAC)
 Enroute Chart ERC 6-1 In AIP 15 AUG 19
 ICAO (ENRC)
 Instrument Approach Chart Singapore Changi
 ICAO (IAC) 1:400 000 RWY 02L - ICW ILS/DME AD-2-WSSS-IAC-1 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 02C - ICE ILS/DME AD-2-WSSS-IAC-2 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 20R - ICH ILS/DME AD-2-WSSS-IAC-5 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 20C - ICC ILS/DME AD-2-WSSS-IAC-6 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 20C - VTK DVOR/DME AD-2-WSSS-IAC-7 In AIP 30 JAN 20
 1:400 000 RWY 02L - RNAV(GNSS) AD-2-WSSS-IAC-9 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 02C - RNAV(GNSS) AD-2-WSSS-IAC-10 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 20R - RNAV(GNSS) AD-2-WSSS-IAC-11 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 20C - RNAV(GNSS) AD-2-WSSS-IAC-12 In AIP 10 OCT 19

 Paya Lebar
 1:400 000 RWY 20 - PU DVOR/DME AD-2-WSAP In AIP 10 OCT 19
 IAC-1
 1:400 000 RWY 02 - PU DVOR/DME AD-2-WSAP In AIP 30 JAN 20
 IAC-2
 1:400 000 RWY 20 - IPS ILS/DME AD-2-WSAP In AIP 10 OCT 19
 IAC-3
 1:400 000 RWY 02 - IPN ILS/DME AD-2-WSAP In AIP 30 JAN 20
 IAC-4
 1:400 000 RWY 02 - RNAV(GNSS) AD-2-WSAP-IAC-5 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 1:400 000 RWY 20 - RNAV(GNSS) AD-2-WSAP-IAC-6 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 Visual Approach Chart 1:400 000 Singapore Changi AD-2-WSSS-VAC-1 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 ICAO (VAC)
 Seletar
 1:100 000 RWY 03 AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1 In AIP 05 DEC 19
 1:100 000 RWY 21 AD-2-WSSL-VAC-2 In AIP 05 DEC 19
 1:100 000 RWY 03 AD-2-WSSL-VAC-3 In AIP 05 DEC 19
 1:100 000 RWY 21 AD-2-WSSL-VAC-4 In AIP 05 DEC 19
 Visual Departure Chart Seletar
 1:100 000 RWY 03 AD-2-WSSL-VDC-1 In AIP 30 JAN 20
 1:100 000 RWY 21 AD-2-WSSL-VDC-2 In AIP 30 JAN 20
  Aerodrome Chart Singapore Changi AD-2-WSSS-ADC-2 In AIP 21 MAY 20
 ICAO (AC) Seletar AD-2-WSSL-ADC-1 In AIP 26 MAR 20
 Paya Lebar AD-2-WSAP-ADC-1 In AIP 12 NOV 15
 Aerodrome Obstacle Chart Singapore Changi
 ICAO TYPE A (AOC) 1:10 000 RWY 20R/02L AD-2-WSSS-AOC-1 In AIP 07 DEC 17
 1:10 000 RWY 20C/02C AD-2-WSSS-AOC-2 In AIP 29 MAR 18

 Seletar
 1:10 000 RWY 03/21 AD-2-WSSL-AOC-1 In AIP 17 AUG 17

 Paya Lebar
 1:20 000 RWY 20/02 AD-2-WSAP-AOC-1 In AIP 10 NOV 16
 Aerodrome Obstacle Chart Singapore Changi
 ICAO TYPE B (AOC) 1:20 000 RWY 02L/20R and 02C/20C AD-2-WSSS-AOC-3 In AIP 13 SEP 18

 Seletar
 1:20 000 RWY 03/21 AD-2-WSSL-AOC-2 In AIP 08 NOV 18
 Precision Approach Terrain Singapore Changi
 Chart 1:2 500 RWY 02L AD-2-WSSS-PATC-1 In AIP 10 OCT 19
 ICAO (PATC) 1:2 500 RWY 20C AD-2-WSSS-PATC-2 In AIP 01 FEB 18

 AIP AMDT 03/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 3.2-5
 25 APR 2019

6 INDEX TO THE WORLD AERONAUTICAL CHART (WAC) - ICAO 1:1 000 000




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
GEN 3.2-6 AIP Singapore
31 MAR 2016

7 CORRECTIONS TO CHARTS NOT CONTAINED IN THE AIP
 Location on the chart where the Precise details of the corrections to be
 Identification of charts
 correction has to be made made




 NIL NIL NIL




AIP AMDT 02/2016 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 3.3-1
 12 NOV 2015


 GEN 3.3 AIR TRAFFIC SERVICES

1 RESPONSIBLE SERVICE
1.1 The Chief Air Traffic Control Officer of the Air Traffic Services Division of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 (CAAS) acting under the authority of the Director-General of Civil Aviation is the authority responsible for the
 overall administration of air traffic services within the Singapore FIR.

 Post: Tel: (65) 65412405
 Chief Air Traffic Control Officer Fax: (65) 6441 0221
 Air Traffic Services Division AFS: WSJCZQZX
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 Singapore Changi Airport
 P. O. Box 1, Singapore 918141


1.2 The services are provided in accordance with the provisions contained in the following ICAO documents:
 Annex 2 – Rules of the Air
 Annex 11 – Air Traffic Services
 Doc 4444 – Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Air Traffic Management (PANS-ATM)
 Doc 8168 – Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Aircraft Operations (PANS-OPS)
 Doc 7030 – Regional Supplementary Procedures


1.3 Differences to these provisions are detailed in subsection GEN 1.7.

2 AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY
2.1 Air traffic services are provided for the entire territory of Singapore, including its territorial waters as well as the
 airspace over the high seas within the Singapore FIR.

2.2 In some cases, in accordance with the regional air navigation agreement, air traffic services are provided, under
 the delegated authority, in the airspace within another bordering FIR. Details of such services are provided in
 section ENR 2.

3 TYPES OF SERVICES
3.1 The following types of services are provided:

 - Flight Information Service (FIS) and Alerting Service (ALRS);
 - Area Control (ACC); and
 - Radar

3.2 With the exception of services provided at military air bases, the following types of services are provided at
 aerodromes:

 - Aerodrome Control (TWR);
 - Aerodrome Flight Information Service (AFIS); and
 - Automatic Terminal Information Service (ATIS) at certain aerodromes

3.3 Air Traffic Control is exercised:

 a. on airways covering the main ATS routes;
 b. within the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex and in control zones at controlled aerodromes equipped
 with approach and/or landing aids.

3.4 Flight information service and alerting service within the Singapore FIR and air traffic control services in control
 areas are provided by one centre (ACC Singapore). There is no distinction between upper and lower controlled
 airspace. The axis of each airway is constituted by a line connecting reference points identified normally by radio
 navigational facilities.

3.5 Air traffic control, flight information and alerting services are provided by:

 a. ACC Singapore along the airways including those parts of the airways traversing the Singapore/ Johor
 Airspace Complex;
 b. the relevant aerodrome control tower in coordination with ACC Singapore as necessary, for arriving and
 departing aircraft.


© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
GEN 3.3-2 AIP Singapore
21 JUL 2016

3.6 Radar service is an integral part of the ATS system. A description of radar services and procedures is provided
 in subsection ENR 1.6. Additional procedures applicable within the Singapore / Johor Airspace Complex are
 contained in sub-section ENR 1.1.

3.7 The description of the airspace designated for air traffic services purpose is found in several tables, all forming
 part of sub-section ENR 2.1.

3.8 In general, the air traffic rules and procedures in force and the organisation of air traffic services are in conformity
 with ICAO Standards, Recommended Practices and Procedures. The regional supplementary procedures and
 altimeter setting procedures are set out in full. Differences between the national and international rules and
 procedures are given in sub-section GEN 1.7.

3.9 A few prohibited areas, restricted areas and danger areas are established within the Singapore/Johor Airspace
 Complex. These areas are shown in sub-section ENR 5.1. Activation of areas subject to intermittent activity is
 notified well in advance by NOTAM, giving reference to the area only by its identification.

3.10 4D/15 service is provided to the following category of aircraft:

 a. Aircraft operating within areas of Singapore FIR where radar services is provided by ATC;
 b. ADS-B equipped aircraft operating in ADS-B airspace; and
 c. ADS-C equipped aircraft logged on to WSJC on routes providing ADS/CPDLC service.

4 CO-ORDINATION BETWEEN THE OPERATOR AND ATS
4.1 Co-ordination between the operator and air traffic services is effected in accordance with Chapter 2, paragraph
 2.15 of ICAO Annex 11 - Air Traffic Services and Chapter II, paragraphs 11.2.1.1.4 and 11.2.1.1.5 ICAO Doc
 4444 - Procedures for Air Navigation Services - Air Traffic Management (PANS-ATM).

5 MINIMUM FLIGHT ALTITUDE
5.1 The minimum flight altitudes on the ATS routes, as presented in section ENR 3, have been determined so as
 to ensure at least 1,000ft (300m) vertical clearance above the highest obstacle within 18km on each side of the
 centre line of the route. However, where the angular divergence of the navigational aid signal in combination
 with the distance between the navigational aids could result in the aircraft being more than 8km on either side
 of the centre line, the 18km protection limit is increased by the extent to which the divergence is more than 8km
 from the centre line.



AIP AMDT 04/2016 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 3.4-1
 12 NOV 2015


 GEN 3.4 COMMUNICATION SERVICES

1 RESPONSIBLE SERVICE
1.1 The Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) is responsible for the provision of telecommunication and
 navigation facility services in Singapore.

1.2 Enquiries, suggestions or complaints regarding any telecommunication and navigation facility services should
 be referred to the Director-General of Civil Aviation.

 Post: Tel: (65) 65421122
 Director-General of Civil Aviation Fax: (65) 65421231
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore AFS: WSSSYAYX
 Singapore Changi Airport
 P. O. Box 1
 Singapore 918141


1.3 The service is provided in accordance with the provisions contained in the following ICAO documents:

 Annex 10 – Aeronautical Telecommunications
 Doc 8400 – Procedures for Air Navigation Services - ICAO Abbreviations and Codes (PANS-ABC)
 Doc 8585 – Designators for Aircraft Operating Agencies, Aeronautical Authorities and Services
 Doc 7030 – Regional Supplementary Procedures
 Doc 7910 – Location Indicators
 Doc 9880 - Manual on Detailed Technical Specifications for the Aeronautical Telecommunications Network
 (ATN) using ISO / OSI standards and protocols

1.4 Differences to these provisions are detailed in subsection GEN 1.7.

2 AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY
2.1 Communication services are provided for the entire SINGAPORE FIR.

3 TYPES OF SERVICE

3.1 Radio navigation services
3.1.1 The following types of radio aids to navigation are available:

 LF/MF non-directional beacon (NDB)
 Instrument landing system (ILS)
 Doppler VHF omni-directional radio range (DVOR)
 Distance measuring equipment (DME)
 Long range primary and secondary surveillance radar
 Primary and secondary approach radar
 Airport surface detection equipment (ASDE)

3.2 Voice/data link services
3.2.1 Voice service

 The aeronautical stations maintain a continuous watch on their stated frequencies during the published hours
 of service unless otherwise notified.

 An aircraft should normally communicate with the air-ground control radio station that exercises control in the
 area in which the aircraft is flying. Aircraft should maintain a continuous watch on the appropriate frequency of
 the control station and should not abandon watch, except in an emergency, without informing the control radio
 station.

3.2.2 Enroute Communications Organisation

 a. The radio frequencies for enroute communications are listed in subsection ENR 2.1

 b. The Singapore HF network provides an umbrella communication coverage for the FIR and may be
 contacted if communication cannot be maintained on the primary channel.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
GEN 3.4-2 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 c. Aircraft approaching or departing from an airport is required to communicate with that airport on the
 appropriate surface movement, tower or approach control frequency.

 d. ADS-C and / or CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover
 and not in ADS-B exclusive airspace within the Singapore FIR. The hours when ADS-C and CPDLC
 services are available and the logon requirements are listed in ENR 2.1. Full details of the services are
 published in ENR 1.1 paragraphs 8.1 to 8.7.


3.2.3 Data link Service

 The messages to be transmitted over the Aeronautical Fixed Service (AFS) are accepted only if:

 a. the messages satisfy the requirements of ICAO Annex 10, Volume II, Chapter 3, paragraph 3.3;

 b. the messages are prepared in the form specified in ICAO Annex 10;

 c. the text of an individual message does not exceed 1800 characters.


3.2.4 General Aircraft Operating Agency Messages

 General aircraft operating agency messages (with priority indicator “KK”) are only accepted for transmission to
 countries which have agreed to accept Class B2 traffic. Details of telecommunication charges for Class B2 traffic
 to countries with which Singapore has agreement for handling of such traffic are given below:

 List of States to which Class B2 traffic will be accepted (rate of charge will be S$0.30 per word):

 Australia, Brunei, Hong Kong, Indonesia (AFS stations), Kampuchea Democratic, Malaysia (Peninsular Malaysia,
 Sabah and Sarawak), Myanmar, Netherlands, New Zealand, Philippines (Manila), Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand
 and Vietnam.

3.3 Broadcasting Service
3.3.1 The following broadcasts are available for the use of aircraft in flight:

 a. HF RTF Volmet Broadcasts (page GEN 3.5-7 refers)

 b. VHF ATIS Broadcasts (page GEN 3.4-3 refers)




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 3.4-3
 02 MAR 2017


 Blank Periods on the ATIS Broadcast

 Pilots are advised that during the process of updating the ATIS information there will be a period of 30 to 60
 seconds of silence prior to the commencement of the next cycle of transmission.

 Alphabetical Reference

 All ATIS broadcasts will include Alphabetical Reference for identification in the ATIS message, beginning each
 day with the alphabet letter ‘ALFA’ at 0001UTC, then following up with letter ‘BRAVO’ at the next broadcast
 at 0030UTC until the last alphabet ‘ZULU’ is reached, after which subsequent broadcast will start again with
 the letter ‘ALFA’.

 Updating of Data

 H + 00 to H + 10 and H + 30 to H + 40.

 Range 100NM

 Height 1.8NM

 Power 75w

 Note to D-ATIS users

 Pilots are advised to use AEEC 623 format with Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) for D-ATIS service to ensure
 data integrity. For aircraft formats without CRC (e.g. AEEC 620 format or AEEC 623 format without CRC),
 pilots are advised to verify the D-ATIS message received with the voice broadcasted ATIS message or to use
 only voice broadcasted ATIS service.


3.4 Language Used
 The language used is English.

3.5 Obtaining Detailed Information
3.5.1 Details of the various facilities available for the en-route traffic can be found in section ENR 4.




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2017
GEN 3.4-4 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

3.5.2 Details of the facilities available at the individual aerodromes can be found in the relevant sections of AD. In
 cases where a facility is serving both the en-route traffic and the aerodromes, details are given in the relevant
 sections of ENR and AD.

4 REQUIREMENTS AND CONDITIONS
4.1 The requirements of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore and the general conditions under which the
 communication services are available for international use, as well as the requirements for the carriage of radio
 equipment, are contained in the Air Navigation Order of Singapore.




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 AIP Singapore




 AERONAUTICAL FIXED SERVICES - INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC CIRCUITS
 STATION CORRESPONDENT RADIO
 FREQUENCIES
 NAME LOCATION CALLSIGN NAME CALLSIGN TYPE OF TRANS REC TYPE OF
 HOURS (UTC) REMARKS
 INDICATOR FOR FOR CHANNEL KHZ KHZ TRAFFIC
 RADIO RADIO
 CIRCUITS CIRCUITS




 GEN 3.5 METEOROLOGICAL SERVICES

1 RESPONSIBLE SERVICE
1.1 The meteorological services for civil aviation are provided by the Meteorological Service Singapore of the
 National Environment Agency.

 Post:
 THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL
 Meteorological Service Singapore
 Singapore Changi Airport,
 P.O. Box 8
 SINGAPORE 918141
 Tel: (65) 65457190(HQ)
 (65) 65425059 / (65) 65422837 (MET Office)
 Fax: (65) 65457192 (HQ)
 (65) 65425026 (MET Office)
 AFS: WSSSYMYX
 URL: www.weather.gov.sg

1.2 The service is provided in accordance with the provisions contained in the following ICAO documents:

 Annex 3 – Meteorological Service for International Air Navigation
 Doc 7030 – Regional Supplementary Procedures Part 3 - Meteorology

1.3 Differences to these provisions are detailed in subsection GEN 1.7.

2 AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY
2.1 Area meteorological watch is provided for the Singapore FIR.





4 TYPES OF SERVICES
4.1 The Meteorological Office and Meteorological Watch Office at Singapore Changi Airport operate H24 and
 provide the following services for civil aviation:

 a. Full meteorological documentation and briefing for current operational planning for all flights operating
 out of Singapore Changi Airport;

 b. Area meteorological watch over the Singapore FIR with the supply of meteorological information including
 SIGMET information to aircraft in flight through the Singapore ATS radio channels (see subsection AD
 2.11);

 c. HF RTF VOLMET broadcasts of meteorological information (see page GEN 3.5-7), Aviation weather
 report with trend statement, strong low level vertical wind shear report and aerodrome warnings are also
 included in VHF ATIS broadcasts for Singapore Changi Airport (see page GEN 3.4-3);

 d. Meteorological information for ATS


4.2 Weather briefing by a forecaster is available H24 to qualified flight operations personnel at the Meteorological
 Office at Singapore Changi Airport or via telephone at (65)65425059 / (65)65422837. Weather information is
 available online via our Aviation Weather Services Portal at URL http://www.weather.gov.sg/ (see paragraph
 9.2 for further details).

4.3 The Meteorological Office at Seletar Aerodrome operates H24 and provides meteorological documentation
 without briefing for international and general aviation flights operating out of Seletar Aerodrome.

4.4 Details of documentation supplied for each flight are determined by arrangement between the operator and the
 Meteorological Office. In general, the pilot-in-command is provided with documentation comprising one or more
 fixed-time prognostic streamline/istotach/spot temperature charts of standard isobaric surfaces appropriate to
 the cruising level (ICAO model IS), one of fixed-time prognostic significant weather chart code form and
 appropriate aerodrome forecasts in TAF code form.

4.5 Routine aerodrome forecasts received from other Meteorological Offices are normally included in meteorological
 documentation without modification. When a required aerodrome forecast is not received, a provisional forecast
 may be issued by the Meteorological Office providing the documentation.

4.6 After documentation has been issued and until take-off (i.e. the latest ETD notified to the Meteorological Office),
 the Meteorological Office at Singapore Changi Airport makes available amendments to the documentation. It
 is the responsibility of the operator’s local representative or the pilot-in-command to obtain any pre-departure
 amendment(s) from the Meteorological Office at Singapore Changi Airport. The pilot-in-command may request
 pre-departure amendment(s) through the Singapore Changi Airport Control Tower.

4.7 Climatological Summaries for Singapore Changi (WSSS-48698) are available from the Meteorological Service
 Singapore.

4.8 OBSERVING SYSTEMS AND OPERATING PROCEDURES AT SINGAPORE CHANGI
 AIRPORT AND SELETAR AERODROME

4.8.1 SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT

4.8.1.1 RWY 02L/20R (Runway 1)
4.8.1.1.1 Surface wind is measured by three cup anemometers and wind vanes located as follows:

 DIST FROM END OF RWY DIST FROM RWY CENTRELINE
 (i) One set at 470 metres north of RWY 02L 130 metres
 (ii) One set at middle of runway 130 metres
 (iii) One set at 470 metres south of RWY 20R 130 metres

4.8.1.1.2 RVR observations are made by means of three sets of transmissometers, located as follows:

 DIST FROM END OF RWY DIST FROM RWY CENTRELINE
 1st set 370 metres north of RWY 02L 110 metres
 2nd set Middle of runway 110 metres
 3rd set 360 metres south of RWY 20R 110 metres

 RVR is reported in steps of 25 metres between 0 and 400 metres, 50 metres between 400 and 800 metres and
 100 metres between 800 and 1,500 metres.


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
GEN 3.5-4 AIP Singapore
08 NOV 2018

4.8.1.2 RWY 02C/20C (Runway II)
4.8.1.2.1 Surface wind is measured by three cup anemometers and wind vanes located as follows:

 DIST FROM END OF RWY DIST FROM RWY CENTRELINE
 (i) One set at 450 metres north of RWY 02C 130 metres
 (ii) One set at middle of runway 130 metres
 (iii) One set at 450 metres south of RWY 20C 130 metres

4.8.1.2.2 RVR observations are made by means of three sets of transmissometers, located as follows:

 DIST FROM END OF RWY DIST FROM RWY CENTRELINE
 1st set 400 metres north of RWY 02C 110 metres
 2nd set Middle of runway 110 metres
 3rd set 400 metres south of RWY 20C 110 metres

 RVR is reported in steps of 25 metres between 0 and 400 metres, 50 metres between 400 and 800 metres and
 100 metres between 800 and 1,500 metres.

4.8.1.2.3 Surface wind is also measured by an ultrasonic wind sensor located at the meteorological station, which is
 situated at 345 metres west of middle of RWY 02L/20R. Surface wind report in METAR and SPECI is taken
 from this measurement.

4.8.1.3 Wind Shear Observations (Singapore Changi Airport)
4.8.1.3.1 Horizontal low level wind shear observations are measured continuously by a system of 13 wind sensors located
 in Singapore Changi airport and its vicinity.

4.8.1.3.2 ATC will pass to all aircraft taking off or landing for the next 1/2 hour from the time of report whenever microburst
 or wind shear of intensity 15 knots or greater is observed/reported.

4.8.1.3.3 The phraseology used by ATC to warn pilots of the presence of wind shear of intensity between 15 and 30 knots
 is:

 “.................. (callsign) WIND SHEAR WARNING
 STRONG LOW LEVEL WIND SHEAR OBSERVED IN THE VICINITY OF
 CHANGI AIRPORT AT ....... (time)”

4.8.1.3.4 The phraseology used by ATC to warn pilots of the presence of wind shear of intensity greater than 30 knots
 is:

 “...........(callsign) WIND SHEAR WARNING
 SEVERE LOW LEVEL WIND SHEAR OBSERVED IN THE VICINITY OF
 CHANGI AIRPORT AT ........(time)”

4.8.1.3.5 The presence of wind shear will also be broadcast in the ATIS for the next half an hour.

4.8.2 SELETAR AERODROME
4.8.2.1 Surface wind is measured by ultrasonic wind sensors at ends of runway. Surface wind report in METAR and
 SPECI is taken from measurements of the ultrasonic wind sensor at RWY 03.

4.8.2.2 Wind Shear Observations (Seletar Aerodrome)

4.8.2.2.1 ATC will pass to all aircraft taking off or landing for the next 1/2 hour from the time of report whenever microburst
 or windshear of intensity 15 knots or greater is observed/reported.

4.8.2.2.2 The phraseology used by ATC to warn pilots of the presence of wind shear of intensity between 15 and 30 knots
 is:

 “...........(callsign) WIND SHEAR WARNING
 STRONG LOW LEVEL WIND SHEAR OBSERVED IN THE VICINITY OF
 SELETAR AIRPORT AT ........(time)”

4.8.2.2.3 The phraseology used by ATC to warn pilots of the presence of wind shear of intensity greater than 30 knots
 is:

 “...........(callsign) WIND SHEAR WARNING
 SEVERE LOW LEVEL WIND SHEAR OBSERVED IN THE VICINITY OF
 SELETAR AIRPORT AT ........(time)”


AIP AMDT 06/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 3.5-5
 10 OCT 2019

5 NOTIFICATION REQUIRED FROM OPERATORS
5.1 It is the responsibility of the operator or the pilot-in-command to notify the meteorological office of any flight for
 which meteorological documentation is required (ref. ICAO Annex 3, paragraph 2.3). As much prior notice as
 possible should be given, and at least one hour notice at Singapore Changi Airport and two hours at Seletar
 Aerodrome would be required for nonscheduled flights.

6 AIRCRAFT REPORTS REQUIRED FROM OPERATORS

6.1 AIREP
6.1.1 Routine aircraft meteorological observations shall be made and the reports transmitted at ATS/ MET reporting
 points listed on page GEN 3.5-6 and as indicated in subsection ENR 3.1 - ATS ROUTES.

6.1.2 Special aircraft observations and aircraft observations during climb-out and approach shall be made and the
 reports transmitted as necessary.

6.1.3 Special aircraft observations of pre-eruption volcanic activity, volcanic eruption or volcanic ash cloud shall be
 recorded on the special Air-Report of Volcanic Activity form which can be downloaded from URL
 https://aim-sg.caas.gov.sg. A copy of the completed Volcanic Activity Report shall be delivered by the operator
 or a flight crew member, without delay, either personally or by telephone facsimile (TEL: 65425026 or 65429978)
 to the Meteorological Office, Singapore Changi Airport.

6.2 REPORTING OF LOW LEVEL WIND SHEAR
6.2.1 Pilots encountering wind shear shall report to ATC as soon as possible.

6.2.2 When reporting wind shear on radiotelephony, the information should be transmitted in this order:

 a. Aircraft callsign;
 b. WIND SHEAR report;
 c. Time (of wind shear occurrence);
 d. Position (of wind shear);
 e. Intensity (moderate, strong or severe);
 f. Average height of wind shear layer.

6.2.3 On receipt of a wind shear report from a pilot, ATC will pass it to other aircraft in the vicinity. The following
 phraseology will be used:

 “WIND SHEAR WARNING
 ARRIVING (or DEPARTING) ........... (type of aircraft)
 REPORTED ...................... (moderate, strong, severe)
 WIND SHEAR IN APPROACH (or DEPARTURE)
 RUNWAY ................ (number) AT ..................... (time)
 HEIGHT OF WIND SHEAR LAYER ................... (feet)”

6.2.4 The presence of wind shear as reported by a pilot will also be broadcast in the ATIS for the next half an hour
 unless subsequent reports indicate that wind shear no longer exists.

6.3 AIRCRAFT ATS/MET REPORTING POINTS IN THE SINGAPORE FIR
6.3.1 Aircraft Meteorological Observations shall be made in relation to and transmitted in flight by all aircraft at the
 following selected Air Traffic Services position reporting points within the Singapore FIR except when:

 a. The flight duration is less than 2 hours, or
 b. The altitude of the flight path is less than 5 000ft, or
 c. The aircraft is less than 1 hour’s flying time from the next intended point of landing.

6.3.2 The aircraft ATS/MET reporting points listed below are indicated in page ENR 3.1/ATS Chart.

6.3.3 The position of the mean wind or spot wind, to the nearest whole degree latitude and longitude, shall be recorded
 and transmitted in flight.


 Plain Language EN.

 (1) SIGMET message or ‘NIL’ is transmitted.

 (2) Latest routine report H+00 including trend statement; repeated at end of broadcast, time permitting.

 (3) H+00 (or the previous H+30 report when the H+00 report is not available) including trend statement when
 appended.

 (4) As available.

 (5) Valid for 12 hours.

 (6) Latest routine report H+30 including trend statement; repeated at end of broadcast, time permitting.

 (7) H+30 (or the H+00 report when the H+30 report is not available) including trend statement when appended.

 (8) Valid for 30 hours.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
\
8.1 General
8.1.1 For the safety of air traffic, the Meteorological Authority maintains an area meteorological watch and warning
 service. This service consists partly of a continuous weather watch within the lower and upper FIR and issuance
 of appropriate information (SIGMET) by Meteorological Watch Office and partly of the issuing of warnings for
 Changi Airport.

8.2 Area Meteorological Watch Service
8.2.1 The area meteorological watch service is performed by the Meteorological Service Singapore.

8.2.2 The Meteorological Service Singapore issues information in the form of SIGMET messages about the occurrence
 or expected occurrence of one or several of the following significant meteorological phenomena:

 - thunderstorms 
 - severe turbulence
 - severe icing
 - severe mountain waves
 - heavy sand storm/dust storm
 - volcanic ash cloud
 - tropical cyclone

 Area of widespread cumulonimbus clouds or cumulonimbus along a line (squall line) with little or no space
 between individual clouds, or cumulonimbus embedded in cloud layers or obscured by haze.

8.2.3 The SIGMETs are issued in abbreviated plain language using ICAO abbreviations and are respectively numbered
 consecutively for each day commencing at 0001. Their period of validity is generally not more than 4 hours and
 less than 6 hours from the time of transmission.

8.2.4 SIGMETs issued by the Meteorological Service Singapore are transmitted to adjacent MWOs in accordance
 with regional air navigation agreements and inserted in the MET page of LORADS (Long Range Radar and
 Display System) for use by the Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
GEN 3.5-8 AIP Singapore
25 APR 2019

8.3 Warning Service
8.3.1 Aerodrome warnings for Changi Airport are issued by Meteorological Service Singapore if one or several of the
 following phenomena are expected to occur at the airport:

 - squall
 - thunderstorm
 - hail
 - tornado
 - horizontal visibility and/or RVR of 800 metres or less
 - mean surface wind speed of 25 knots or more
 - wind gusts of 35 knots or more
 - cloud of BKN or OVC amount with base 500 ft or less

8.3.2 The warnings are:

 - for the protection of parked and moored aircraft,
 - for the protection of equipment at the airport, and
 - for the safety of arriving and departing aircraft.

8.3.3 The warnings are issued in English and are distributed in accordance with a distribution list which has to be
 agreed upon locally. In order to guarantee rapid dissemination of the warnings, the distribution list to be used
 shall, as far as possible, contain only one recipient for an interested group; this recipient will be responsible for
 the further dissemination of the warning within the group.

8.3.4 SIGMET is disseminated by directed transmissions to aircraft through general calls by the Area Control Centre,
 Singapore for Singapore FIR.




AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 3.5-9
 08 NOV 2018

9 OTHER AUTOMATED METEOROLOGICAL SERVICES
9.1 Besides VOLMET and ATIS broadcasts, airline operators can obtain access to various operational meteorological
 information through our Aviation Weather Services Portal and automated faxing service.

9.2 The Aviation Weather Services Portal is free to airlines and flight operators with flights departing from Singapore
 Changi or Seletar Airports. It is accessible via the "Login" link at URL http://www.weather.gov.sg/. A registered
 user account is required for the access. For registration, please email to MSS_Aviation_Enquiries@nea.gov.sg





© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2018
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore GEN 3.6-1
 12 NOV 2015


 GEN 3.6 SEARCH AND RESCUE

1 RESPONSIBLE SERVICE (S)
1.1 The search and rescue service in Singapore is provided by the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore, in
 collaboration with the Ministry of Defence, Meteorological Service and Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore,
 which have the responsibility for making the necessary facilities available. The postal and telegraphic addresses
 of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore are given on page GEN 1.1-1.

 Post:
 RESCUE COORDINATION CENTRE (RCC),
 60 Biggin Hill Road,
 Singapore 509950.
 Tel: (65) 65425024 - Singapore RCC
 (65) 65412668 or (65) 65412672 - Singapore ACC
 Fax: (65) 65422548
 AFS: WSJCZGZX or WSJCYCYX
1.2 The service is provided in accordance with the provisions contained in the following ICAO documents and local
 procedures:

 Annex 12 – Search and Rescue
 Annex 13 – Aircraft Accident and Incident Investigation
 Doc 7030 – Regional Supplementary Procedures for Alerting and SAR services applicable in the SEA Region.
 Doc 9731 – International Aeronautical and Maritime Search and Rescue Manuals Volume 1, 2 and 3 Singapore
 local procedures


2 AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY
2.1 The search and rescue service is responsible for SAR operations within Singapore FIR.

3 TYPES OF SERVICES
3.1 Details of the rescue coordination centre and related supporting rescue units are given in the table on page GEN
 3.6-3 titled - Search and Rescue Units. In addition, various elements of the Singapore Police Force, Maritime
 and Port Authority of Singapore and the Merchant Marine are available for search and rescue missions, when
 required. The aeronautical, maritime and public telecommunication services are available to the search and
 rescue organisation.

3.2 All search aircraft are land planes and carry survival equipment, capable of being dropped, consisting of inflatable
 rubber dinghies equipped with general purpose first aid supplies, emergency rations and survival radio equipment.
 Aircraft are equipped to communicate on 121.5MHz, 123.1MHz, 243.0MHz, 282.8MHz, 2182KHz, 3023KHz
 and 5680KHz and are also equipped with VHF/UHF direction finder. Marine craft are equipped to communicate
 on 123.1MHz, 282.8MHz, 2182KHz, 3023KHz and 5680KHz and are equipped with radar.

3.3 The Singapore RCC provides distress alert detection of Emergency Locator Transmitters (ELTs), Emergency
 Position Indicator Radio Beacons (EPIRBs) and Personal Locator Beacons (PLBs) using the Cospas-Sarsat
 Satellite Aided Tracking System. This system is able to detect 406.0MHz beacons globally and the information
 is shared with the other users of the system. A database of the Singapore registered aviation beacons is kept
 at the RCC and the Maritime beacons are in the Maritime and Port Authority database.

3.4 Users of 406.0MHz beacons that are coupled with the 121.5MHz frequency will be able to use the 121.5MHz
 for homing purposes only by search units.

4 SAR AGREEMENTS
4.1 SAR agreements have been concluded between Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore and the SAR authorities
 or agencies of Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam. These agreements provide for mutual
 assistance in the conduct of SAR operations within each others’ SAR Regions (SRR) and approval for entry of
 SAR aircraft, vessels and personnel of one State into the SRR of another State, with prior permission, for the
 purpose of conducting SAR operations or rendering SAR assistance and for direct communications between
 the SAR authorities or agencies on all common SAR matters.

4.2 Requests for the entry of aircraft, equipment and personnel from other States to engage in search for aircraft in
 distress or to rescue survivors of aircraft accidents should be transmitted to the Rescue Coordination Centre.
 Instructions as to the control which will be exercised on entry of such aircraft and/ or personnel will be given by
 the Rescue Coordination Centre in accordance with the standing plan for the conduct of search and rescue in
 the area.

© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
GEN 3.6-2 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

4.3 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore has also concluded an SAR agreement with the SAR Coordinator Pacific
 RCC, United States Air Force (USAF). The agreement provides for all possible assistance to assist RCC
 Singapore in its response to United States (US) military SAR incidents within the Singapore SRR. It will also
 provide US assistance to RCC Singapore in its prosecution of civil SAR incidents when requested.

5 CONDITIONS OF AVAILABILITY
5.1 The SAR service and facilities in Singapore are available without charge to neighbouring states on opportunity
 basis and upon request to the Rescue Coordination Centre Singapore or the Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre.
 All facilities are specialised in SAR techniques and functions.

6 PROCEDURES AND SIGNALS USED

6.1 Procedures and signals used by aircraft
6.1.1 Procedures for pilots-in-command observing an accident or intercepting a distress call and/or message are
 outlined in ICAO Annex 12, Chapter 5.

6.1.2 Ditching reports, requested by aircraft about to ditch, are given in accordance with the provisions in Procedures
 for Air Navigation Services, Meteorology (Doc 7605-MET/526)

6.2 Communications
6.2.1 Transmission and reception of distress messages within the Singapore Search and Rescue Region are handled
 in accordance with ICAO Annex 10, Volume II, Chapter 5, para 5.3.

6.2.2 For communications during search and rescue operations, the codes and abbreviations published in ICAO
 Abbreviations and Codes (Doc 8400) are used.

6.2.3 Information concerning positions, callsigns, frequencies and hours of operation of Singapore aeronautical stations
 is published in sections AD 2 and ENR 2.

6.2.4 The frequency 121.5MHz is guarded continuously by the Control Tower, Singapore Changi Airport, the Singapore
 Air Traffic Control Centre and Control Tower, Seletar Aerodrome. The Coast Radio Station in Singapore guards
 the international distress frequencies.

6.2.5 Search and Rescue aircraft conducting Search and Rescue Operations will use the following callsigns:

 a. Fixed Wing ‘Rescue (plus number 61 to 85)’
 b. Rotary Wing ‘Rescue (plus number 10 to 19)’

6.2.6 Rescue vessels / boats conducting Search and Rescue Operations will use the following callsigns:

 a. ‘Rescue Vessel (plus number 21 to 31)’
 b. ‘Rescue Boat (plus number or callsign)’

6.3 Search and Rescue Signals
6.3.1 The search and rescue signals to be used are those prescribed in ICAO Annex 12, Chapter 5, para 5.10.

6.3.2 Ground/Air Visual Signal Codes for use by Survivors


 GEN 4 CHARGES FOR AERODROMES/HELIPORT AND AIR
 NAVIGATION SERVICES


 GEN 4.1 AERODROME CHARGES

1 AIRPORT FEES AND CHARGES APPLICABLE AT SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
1.1 These charges are set out in the website of the airport operator, Changi Airport Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd:
 http://changiairportgroup.com/cag/html/our-services/airport-fees-and-charges.html

1.2 Exemption from payment of any Singapore Changi Airport charges are set out in the CAAS (Licensing of Airport
 Operators) Regulations 2009, accessible from the link below:
 http://www.caas.gov.sg/caas/en/Regulations/Legislations/Civil_Aviation_Authority_of_Singapore_Act.html

2 AIRPORT FEES AND CHARGES APPLICABLE AT SELETAR AIRPORT
2.1 These charges are set out in the website of the airport operator, Changi Airport Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd:
 http://www.seletarairport.com/list-of-charges/

2.2 Exemption from payment of any Seletar Airport charges are set out in the CAAS (Licensing of Airport Operators)
 Regulations 2009, accessible from the link below:
 http://www.caas.gov.sg/caas/en/Regulations/Legislations/Civil_Aviation_Authority_of_Singapore_Act.html

3 HANGAR FEES
3.1 Hangar facilities at Singapore Changi Airport are managed by Singapore Airlines Ltd. Information on hangar
 fees may be obtained from Singapore Airlines (SIA).

3.2 Hangar facilities at Seletar Airport are managed byJTC’s tenants. Information on hangar fees may be obtained
 directly from the tenants.

4 NOISE RELATED ITEMS
4.1 Please refer to AIP Singapore, Aerodrome sections of the respective airports.

5 GROUND HANDLING SERVICE CHARGES
5.1 The ground handling services at Singapore Changi Airport have been out-sourced by the airport operator, Changi
 Airport Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd to the licensed ground handlers. Unlike the other 2 licensed ground handlers,
 SIA Engineering Company Limited is licenced to provide only a subset of the apron handling services. Please
 contact the following licensed ground handlers for information on ground handling services and related charges:

 DNATA Singapore Pte Ltd
 http://www.dnata.sg/contact.html
 SATS Ltd
 http://www.sats.com.sg/ContactUs/Pages/ContactUs.aspx
 SIA Engineering Company Limited
 http://www.siaec.com.sg/contact_us.html


5.2 The ground handling services at Seletar Airport have been out-sourced by the airport operator, Changi Airport
 Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd to the licensed ground handlers. Please contact the licensed ground handlers for
 information on ground handling services and related charges. The licensed ground handlers’ contact details are
 set out in the website of the airport operator, Changi Airport Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd:
 http://www.seletarairport.com/ground-handling-agents-at-seletar-airport/


 GEN 4.2 AIR NAVIGATION SERVICES CHARGES
 ROUTE AIR NAVIGATION SERVICES (RANS) CHARGES IN SECTOR A AIRSPACE

1 GENERAL
1.1 All civil aircraft operating in the airspace within 90NM south of SINJON, from ground/sea level to FL370, will
 be levied a route air navigation services (RANS) charge. This airspace is referred to as Sector A (refer to chart
 at page GEN 4.2-3).

1.2 The air navigation charges collected by the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) will be remitted to
 Indonesia as Sector A includes Indonesian territorial airspace.

2 RANS CHARGES
2.1 The formula for computing RANS charges in Sector A is as follows:

 RANS Charge = Unit Rate X Route Unit

 (a) The Unit Rate is : US$0.65 (with effect from 1 May 2013)

 (b) The computation of the Route Unit is as follows:

 Route Unit = Distance Factor (DF) X Weight Factor
 where
 1km ≤ Distance < 50km (27NM) : DF = 0
 50km (27NM) ≤ Distance < 150km (81NM) : DF = 1

 Thereafter, for every subsequent100km (54NM) or part thereof, DF shall increase by 1.

 Weight Factor is based on the Weight Factor Table (refer to GEN 4.2-4).


3 EXEMPTION FROM RANS CHARGES
3.1 No charge will be levied for the following types of flights:

 a. all non-civil flights;

 b. State aircraft belonging to Republic of Indonesia and Republic of Singapore;

 c. VVIP flights such as aircraft used by a Head of State/Government and his group;

 d. aircraft used for search and rescue purposes;

 e. aircraft which have obtained exemption from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, Indonesia;

 f. aircraft which CAAS exempts from landing charges; and

 g. non-commercial aircraft for training, instructional and test flight.


4 COLLECTION OF RANS CHARGES
4.1 CAAS will collect the RANS charges and remit them to Directorate General of Civil Aviation, Indonesia.

4.2 Operators with credit arrangement with CAAS will be billed on a monthly basis. Payment must be made within
 14 days of the date of issuance of the invoice. Payment is to be made in United States Dollars and shall include
 all bank charges such as agent banks’ charges.

4.3 Operators with no credit arrangement with CAAS will need to make payment prior to each flight departure as
 follows:

 a. Singapore Changi Airport - cash payment at the Changi Apron Office.

 b. Seletar Airport - payment through USD cheques at the Seletar Apron Office.


4.4 Where credit arrangement is desired in the case of regular users, a written application for credit facility has to
 be submitted.

© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2018
GEN 4.2-2 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

5 PERSON LIABLE TO PAY RANS CHARGES
5.1 The person liable to pay the charges is the operator of the aircraft at the time of the flight concerned. If the
 operator of the aircraft is not known, the owner of the aircraft shall be liable.

6 QUERIES ON LEVYING/BILLING OF RANS CHARGES
6.1 Please direct any questions regarding the levying and billing of RANS charges to:

 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 Finance Division (Revenue)
 Singapore Changi Airport
 P. O. Box 1
 Singapore 918141

 TEL : (65) 65412069 or 65412042
 FAX : (65) 65423952




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 4.2-3
 12 NOV 2015




 ENR 1 GENERAL RULES AND PROCEDURES


 ENR 1.1 GENERAL RULES

1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 Aircraft in flight or operating on the manoeuvring area of an aerodrome shall comply with the general flight rules
 applicable to the operation of aircraft (Annex 2). Additionally, aircraft in flight shall comply with the instrument
 flight rules (IFR) or the visual flight rules (VFR). An aircraft operating between the hours of sunset and sunrise,
 irrespective of weather conditions shall comply with IFR requirements or, if in a control zone during these hours,
 shall require special authorisation from ATC. Aircraft operating in controlled airspace shall comply with any
 instruction, clearance or request issued by ATC, or shall immediately advise ATC if unable to comply. Aircraft
 operating on ATS routes are to maintain track centreline.

2 FLIGHTS ON AIRWAYS (AREA CONTROL)

2.1 INTRODUCTION
2.1.1 Areas of responsibility for the control of flights on airways and the units providing this service are shown in
 subsection ENR 2.1.

2.1.2 Separation is based on:

 a. Estimated and actual times over position reporting points;
 b. Reports of visual sighting; and
 c. Radar identification.

 Note: As position reports are most commonly used it is important for estimates to be revised and notified to the
 ACC if more than 2 minutes in error.

2.1.3 To preserve standard vertical separation from aircraft operating above and below controlled airspace in the
 Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex, aircraft shall not be flown within 500ft of the upper and lower limits. Similarly,
 an encroachment on the horizontal limits of these airspaces should be avoided because of the proximity of
 restricted and danger areas.

2.2 COMMUNICATIONS AND RADIO NAVIGATION REQUIREMENTS
2.2.1 All aircraft operating under IFR or VFR within controlled airspaces shall be equipped with appropriate
 communications and navigation equipment enabling them:

 a. To maintain two-way communication with the appropriate ATC unit. The minimum requirement is VHF
 RTF equipment suitable for communicating on ATC frequencies and HF RTF beyond the range of VHF.
 b. To maintain track within the lateral limits of the airway and to navigate in accordance with ATC instructions.
 The minimum requirement is one radio compass.

2.2.2 The pilot-in-command shall maintain a continuous listening watch on the appropriate air/ground frequency.

2.3 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL CLEARANCE
2.3.1 An air traffic control clearance is an authorisation by ATC for an aircraft to proceed under specified traffic
 conditions within controlled airspaces. If for any reason an air traffic control clearance is not acceptable to the
 pilot-in-command, he may request an alternative clearance.

2.3.2 The pilot-in-command shall obtain an air traffic control clearance prior to operating in a controlled airspace.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
ENR 1.1-2 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

2.3.3 An air traffic control clearance will contain the following items:

 a. Aircraft identification;
 b. Clearance limit and route instruction;
 c. Level assignment;
 d. Departure instruction when necessary;
 e. Approach instruction when necessary;
 f. Clearance expiry time when necessary; and
 g. Any special instructions and information.

2.3.4 Request for Amended Clearance. If the amended clearance is requested at a time a position report is made,
 the information contained in that report shall be given on the assumption that the aircraft is proceeding in
 accordance with the current clearance, and not with that which is being requested.

2.3.5 The contents of an air traffic control clearance or any revisions thereto shall apply only to those portions of the
 flight conducted within controlled airspaces.

2.3.6 An air traffic control clearance may be issued direct to an aircraft by an ACC or through an aerodrome control
 unit or an air/ground HF RTF communications unit.

2.3.7 Phrases used in air traffic clearances will have the following meanings:

 a. “Clearance expires at ......... (time)”.
 If the aircraft is not airborne by the time stated, a fresh clearance shall be obtained.

 b. “Depart not before .......... (time)”.
 An aircraft will not be cleared for departure until the time specified.

 c. “Unable to approve .......... (flight planned level)’.
 When ATC is unable to approve the flight planned level, an alternative level will be offered whenever
 possible, to avoid or reduce delay.


2.3.8 A pilot-in-command operating under VFR in controlled airspaces shall not enter instrument meteorological
 conditions without first obtaining an ATC clearance in accordance with the procedure laid down for flights joining
 airways. Until such clearance is received, the aircraft must remain in VMC.

2.3.9 Where a flight plan specifies IFR for the first portion of a flight and VFR for the latter portion, the aircraft will
 normally be cleared to the point where IFR terminates. (Clearance is not necessary beyond that point unless
 within the Singapore-Johor Airspace Complex and CTR).

2.3.10 If an ATC clearance stipulates VFR climb or descent and it becomes evident to the pilot-in-command that VMC
 cannot be maintained, he shall hold in VMC and request an alternative clearance.

2.3.11 The pilot-in-command having acknowledged an air traffic control clearance shall not deviate from the provisions
 of the clearance unless an amended clearance has been obtained.

2.3.12 Subsection ENR 1.6 provides guidance to pilot-in-command compelled to deviate from the provisions of an air
 traffic control clearance because of communications failure.

2.3.13 A flight shall normally be cleared to the aerodrome of first intended landing and the point of leaving controlled
 airspace or, in the case of a flight where prior co-ordination with an adjacent unit cannot be established, the FIR
 boundary. This is known as the clearance limit.

2.3.14 An aircraft which has been cleared to an intermediate point en-route to await further ATC clearance will whenever
 possible, be issued the required ATC clearance at least 5 minutes before the aircraft arrives at the clearance
 limit, unless the pilot is instructed to hold over the intermediate holding point until a specified time.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.1-3
 12 NOV 2015

2.3.15 In the event of an aircraft arriving at the clearance limit without having received a further clearance, the
 pilot-in-command shall immediately request a further clearance and hold in accordance with the specified holding
 pattern where one is established or otherwise the standard holding pattern, maintaining the last assigned cruising
 level until further clearance is received. Where no direct ATC coordination facilities between Regional Area
 Control Centres exist, pilots on such routes must endeavour, when airborne, to contact the Area Control Centre
 of the next FIR which the aircraft is entering and obtain clearance to enter its Control Area before reaching the
 transfer point of the two ACCs.

2.3.16 When a flight operates successively in a Control Area and subsequently along the advisory route or area, the
 clearance issued for the flight or any revisions thereto will only apply to those portions of the flight conducted
 within controlled airspaces.

2.4 ROUTE AND LEVEL ASSIGNMENT
2.4.1 The pilot-in-command shall fly in strict accordance to the route specified by ATC. Deviation from the specified
 route may be permitted by ATC if traffic conditions permit.

2.4.2 Traffic permitting ATC will assign the flight planned level if in accordance with the table of Semi-Circular System
 of Cruising Levels. Cruising levels below the minimum specified in subsection ENR 3.1 will not be assigned.

2.5 ESSENTIAL TRAFFIC INFORMATION
2.5.1 Essential traffic is that controlled traffic to which the provision of separation by ATC is applicable but, which in
 relation to a particular controlled traffic, does not have the required minimum separation.

2.5.2 Essential traffic information shall be issued to controlled flights concerned whenever they constitute essential
 traffic to each other.

 Note: This information will inevitably relate to controlled flights which are cleared subject to maintaining own
 separation and remaining in visual meteorological conditions.

2.5.3 Essential traffic information shall include:

 a. Direction of flight of aircraft concerned;
 b. Type of aircraft concerned;
 c. Level(s) of aircraft concerned and estimated time of passing or if this is not available, the estimated time
 of arrival for the reporting point nearest to where the level will be crossed.

2.6 INSTRUCTIONS TO DEPARTING AIRCRAFT
2.6.1 ATC may specify any or all of the following items when issuing clearance to departing aircraft:

 a. Turn after take-off;

 b. Track to make good before turning on desired route;

 c. Initial level to maintain;

 d. Time, point and/or rate at which level change shall be made.


2.6.2 ATC may instruct a departing aircraft to leave a reporting point at a specified time or to be at a specified level
 at a specified point or time. The pilot-in-command shall notify ATC if these instructions cannot be complied with.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.1-4 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

2.7 ARRIVAL/APPROACH INSTRUCTIONS
2.7.1 ATC clearance or control instructions for approach to an aerodrome or holding point will be issued to an arriving
 aircraft on initial contact with the appropriate ATC unit.

2.7.2 The clearance will specify the clearance limit, route and level to be flown. An Expected Approach Time will be
 included if it is anticipated that the arriving aircraft will be required to hold.

2.7.3 Pilots are reminded to use the phraseology minimum fuel and MAYDAY MAYDAY MAYDAY fuel to notify ATC
 of their low fuel state or fuel emergency. For details, refer to CAAS Information Circular IC 5/ 2013 available at
 URL http://www.caas.gov.sg - Regulations - Safety - Documents and Notices - Information Circulars.

2.8 WEATHER INFORMATION
2.8.1 Weather information will be passed to inbound aircraft on request. However, pilots should tune on to ATIS
 frequency 128.6 MHz for the weather.

2.8.2 The term CAVOK will be used in place of visibility, weather and cloud when the following conditions apply
 simultaneously:

 a. Visibility 10km or more;
 b. No precipitations or thunderstorms;
 c. No cloud below 1 500m.

2.8.3 Deterioration and improvement weather reports and significant weather information, e.g. severe turbulence,
 thunderstorms, icing conditions etc. will be passed to all aircraft concerned.

2.9 AIRCRAFT JOINING OR CROSSING AIRWAYS
2.9.1 Pilots-in-command of aircraft joining or crossing an airway will:

 a. When flying under VFR outside the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex and CTRs notify the appropriate
 authority; or

 b. When flying under IFR, or when joining or crossing the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex and CTRs
 request clearance from the appropriate authority not later than 10 minutes on VHF RTF or 20 minutes on
 HF RTF before joining or crossing.


2.9.2 An in-flight request or notification or intention to join an Airway shall include the following information, as
 appropriate:

 a. Aircraft identification;
 b. Aircraft type;
 c. Position;
 d. Level and flight conditions;
 e. Estimated time at point of joining;
 f. Desired level;
 g. Route and point of first intended landing;
 h. True airspeed;
 i. The words “Request joining clearance”.

2.9.3 An in-flight request or notification of intention to cross an Airway shall include the following information:

 a. Aircraft identification;
 b. Aircraft type;
 c. True track;
 d. Place and estimated time of crossing;
 e. Desired crossing level;
 f. Ground Speed;
 g. The words “Request crossing clearance”

2.9.4 The selected crossing or joining point should, where possible, be associated with a radio facility to assist accurate
 navigation.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.1-5
 12 NOV 2015

2.10 VFR Flights Crossing Airways
2.10.1 VFR flights intending to cross Airways outside the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex shall only cross them at
 various levels plus 500ft at an angle of 90° to the direction of the Airway, or as close as possible to this angle.
 Condition for operation of VFR flights are given in page ENR 1.2 para 2.

2.10.2 In an emergency, where neither a radar nor a procedural crossing can be obtained, an Airway may be crossed
 at various levels plus 500ft. The various levels referred to are flight levels of whole thousands in feet.

2.11 TEMPORARY DANGER AREAS ON AIRWAYS
2.11.1 Military operations, both air and ground, frequently take place within the Singapore FIR. Danger Areas will be
 promulgated by NOTAM, giving the reference point, vertical extent, radius and duration of the operation.

2.11.2 Where danger areas infringe controlled airspace, the areas will not be available for use by civil aircraft at the
 levels affected.

2.12 SINGAPORE/JOHOR AIRSPACE COMPLEX - SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS
2.12.1 All flights, IFR and VFR, conducted within the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex are subject to an Air Traffic
 Control Clearance and are regulated in accordance with IFR separation standards.

2.12.2 Singapore ACC performs both Area and Approach Control functions for all aircraft landing at Singapore Changi
 and Seletar Airports. Procedural traffic bound for RSAF Paya Lebar, Tengah or Sembawang are likewise
 controlled by Singapore ACC but such traffic will normally be released to the respective military
 aerodrome/approach unit according to traffic circumstances and at the most convenient point within the
 Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex. Due to the close proximity of these aerodromes, all FIR procedural traffic
 are processed in order of priority irrespective of destination and slight delays may be expected. The
 pilot-in-command will call the appropriate Tower at the time, level or place specified by Singapore ACC.

2.12.3 Control instructions for arriving and departing aircraft will be issued in accordance with paras 2.6 and 2.7.

2.13 IFR FLIGHTS OUTSIDE SINGAPORE/JOHOR AIRSPACE COMPLEX IN VMC
2.13.1 The pilot-in-command of an aircraft operating under IFR within 183km (100nm) from Singapore Changi Airport
 below FL150 may request a VFR clearance for any portion of the flight. In the absence of such a request, ATC
 will issue a full IFR clearance regardless of weather conditions.

2.13.2 Outside the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex within 100nm from Singapore Changi Airport, when necessary
 to expedite traffic, ATC may request a pilot-in-command under IFR below FL150 to conduct portion of the flight
 under VFR. An alternative clearance will be issued if the pilot-in-command has any doubt as to his ability to
 maintain VFR.

3 AIR TRAFFIC ADVISORY SERVICE
 Not Provided




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.1-6 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

4 FLIGHT INFORMATION SERVICE

4.1 INTRODUCTION
4.1.1 Flight Information Service is provided to all flights.

4.1.2 Units providing FIS and the areas they serve are shown in section ENR 2.

4.2 PROVISION OF FLIGHT INFORMATION SERVICE
4.2.1 Under this service the following information is provided to pilots by the FIC or at the request of the pilot:

 a. SIGMET Information concerning tropical revolving storm, active thunderstorm areas, severe line squall,
 heavy hail, severe turbulence, severe icing and marked mountain waves, is provided;
 b. Special Air-Reports are provided as available;
 c. Landing Forecast (Trend Type) for Singapore is provided to turbine operations when approximately one
 hour from landing;
 d. Aerodrome Forecasts are readily available on request for Singapore, Kuala Lumpur and Soekarno-Hatta;
 Note: Aerodrome Forecasts for other aerodromes are also provided on request but are not readily
 available.
 e. Amended Aerodrome Forecasts for local as well as foreign aerodromes are provided as available;
 f. Special Met Reports (aviation selected special weather reports) are provided for Singapore and Kuala
 Lumpur;
 g. Met Reports (aviation routine weather reports) (half-hourly) are readily available on request for Singapore,
 Kuala Lumpur and Soekarno Hatta; Note: Met Reports for other aerodromes are also provided on request
 but are not readily available.
 h. Upper-Air Information - Forecast of en-route upper winds and temperatures are available on request.

4.2.2 In addition, the FIC may arrange diversions of aircraft in consultation with the appropriate operating company
 representative.

 Note: As traffic information may be based on data of doubtful accuracy and completeness and as it may be
 subject to communication delay, the FIC cannot assume any responsibility by issuing information or professing
 advice to aircraft in an endeavour to resolve an apparent hazardous traffic situation.

4.2.3 All aircraft on VFR flights and aircraft on IFR flights outside controlled airspace shall maintain watch on the
 frequency used by the unit providing flight information service and file with the station information as to their
 position.

 Note: No information on position of surface vessels is provided by the Singapore ATC Centre.

4.3 USE OF RADAR IN THE FLIGHT INFORMATION SERVICE - Functions
4.3.1 The information presented on a radar display may be used to provide identified aircraft with:

 a. information regarding any aircraft observed to be on a conflicting path with the radar identified aircraft
 and suggestions or advice regarding avoiding action;

 b. information on the position of significant weather and, as practicable, advice to the aircraft on how best
 to circumnavigate any such areas of adverse weather;

 c. information to assist the aircraft in its navigation.


 Note: The use of radar in the provision of flight information service does not relieve the pilot-in-command of
 an aircraft of any responsibilities, including the final decision regarding any suggested alteration of the flight
 plan.

 Attention must be given to the fact that under certain circumstances, the most active area of adverse weather
 may not show on a radar display.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.1-7
 12 NOV 2015

5 AERODROME/APPROACH CONTROL SERVICE

5.1 INTRODUCTION
5.1.1 Aerodrome/Approach Control issue air traffic control clearances, instructions and information to aircraft to ensure
 the safe, orderly and expeditious flow of air traffic.

5.1.2 In VMC all aircraft flying in a control zone (CTR) or aerodrome traffic zone (ATZ) come under Aerodrome Control.
 This does not, however, relieve the pilot-in-command from responsibility for avoiding collision.

5.1.3 In VMC control of traffic on the runway in use and in the air is shared between Aerodrome Control and Approach
 Control. Normally, departing aircraft is the responsibility of Approach Control when airborne, whilst arriving
 aircraft is handed over to Aerodrome Control after it has been properly sequenced for an approach to land. The
 actual point of transfer depends on traffic conditions and is coordinated between the two units. Control of traffic
 on other parts of the manoeuvring area, with the exception of the marshalling area, is the responsibility of
 Aerodrome Control.

5.1.4 CTR dimensions and controlling authorities are specified in section ENR 3.

5.2 PROCEDURE
5.2.1 Holding, instrument approach, arrival and departure procedures are specified in subsections ENR 1.5 and ENR
 3.6.

5.2.2 Radio communication shall be established with the appropriate Aerodrome/Approach Control Unit:

 a. Prior to taxiing for departure; or
 b. When intending to operate in a CTR, CTA or ATZ.

5.2.3 For IFR or VFR operation in a CTR, aircraft shall be equipped with appropriate two-way VHF radio apparatus,
 plus a radio compass. Exemptions may be granted by the appropriate Controlling Authority.

5.2.4 A pilot-in-command under IFR or VFR intending to enter, cross or operate within a CTR or ATZ shall request a
 clearance from the Aerodrome/Approach Control on the appropriate radio frequency. He shall:

 a. Pass the aircraft’s position, level, track and estimated time of crossing the zone boundary;
 b. Maintain a continuous listening watch on that frequency while the aircraft is within the zone;
 c. Navigate in accordance with the flight plan and ATC clearance;
 d. Carry out any instructions received from Aerodrome/Approach Control.

5.2.5 All flights within a CTR, at night or in IMC, shall be conducted in accordance with IFR or special authorisation
 by ATC. However, in order to expedite traffic, ATC may clear an aircraft for a visual approach if weather conditions
 permit.

5.2.6 Special VFR Flight
5.2.6.1 A Special VFR flight is a VFR flight cleared by air traffic control to operate within a control zone in meteorological
 conditions below VMC.

5.2.6.2 Special VFR flights may be authorised to enter a control zone for the purpose of landing or to take-off and depart
 directly from a control zone when the ground visibility is not less than 1.5km (1 mile). The pilot of an aircraft on
 a Special VFR flight:

 a. Must comply with ATC instructions;
 b. Is responsible for ensuring that his flight conditions enable him to remain clear of cloud, determine his
 flight path with reference to the surface and keep clear of obstructions;
 c. Is responsible for ensuring that he flies within the limitations of his licence. Controllers are not responsible
 for checking pilot’s qualifications.

5.2.6.3 A Special VFR clearance shall be issued only when specifically requested by a pilot.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.1-8 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

5.2.6.4 Before clearing a Special VFR flight a controller must consider the prevailing traffic conditions, the extent of the
 proposed flight and the availability of air/ground communications. IFR flights take precedence over Special VFR
 flights. Standard separation shall be provided:

 a. Between IFR flights and Special VFR flights;
 b. Between flights operating on Special VFR clearance except where a reduction is specifically authorised
 by CAAS.

5.2.6.5 Aircraft on Special VFR clearance are not normally given a specific height to fly but for the purpose of ensuring
 vertical separation from other aircraft flying above, the Special VFR flight may be required to fly not above a
 specified level.

5.3 SEPARATION STANDARDS
5.3.1 All flights VFR or IFR within CTRs will be regulated in accordance with IFR separation standards unless the
 conditions stated in page ENR 1.7-8 para 4.10.2 prevail. ATC Services are also provided to aircraft within ATZs.

5.4 SPECIAL SEPARATION STANDARD - WAKE TURBULENCE
5.4.1 The relevant wake separation minima contained in ICAO PANS-ATM DOC 4444 are applied by ATC.

5.5 VISUAL CIRCUIT REPORTING PROCEDURE
5.5.1 The pilot-in-command shall report position in accordance with the following diagram:




 a. Downwind
 Aircraft shall report “Downwind” abeam the upwind end of the runway.

 b. Base Leg
 Aircraft shall report “Base Leg” on completion of the turn on to base leg.

 c. Final
 Aircraft shall report “Final” after completion of the turn on to final approach, not more than 4NM from the
 approach end of the runway.

 d. Long Final
 Aircraft flying a straight-in approach shall report “Long Final” 8NM from the approach end of the runway,
 and “Final” when at 4NM.


 Note: At grass aerodrome, the area to be used for landing is regarded as the runway for the purposes of
 reporting position in the circuit.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.1-9
 12 NOV 2015

5.6 USE OF RUNWAY
5.6.1 The Aerodrome Controller will nominate the runway direction according to prevailing conditions.

5.6.2 Notwithstanding the runway direction nominated by ATC, the pilot-in-command shall ensure that there is sufficient
 length of run and that the crosswind or downwind component is within the operational limits of each particular
 operation. If the nominated runway direction is not suitable for these reasons or for any other safety reason, he
 may request for an alternative runway direction. ATC will grant the use of an alternative runway direction but
 the flight may be subject to some delay because of other traffic.

5.6.3 The decision to undertake a take-off or landing rests solely with the pilot-in-command.

5.6.4 Unless prior permission has been obtained from ATC, the pilot-in-command shall not hold on the runway in use.

5.6.5 Only one aircraft will be cleared to land on the runway in use at any one time.

5.6.6 In VMC, an aircraft may be cleared to continue approach to a runway occupied by a preceding aircraft but
 clearance to land will not be given until the runway is vacated.

5.7 CLOSURE OF AERODROMES
5.7.1 Aircraft will not be refused permission to land or take off from airfields in the Singapore FIR solely because of
 adverse weather conditions. The pilot-in-command of a public transport aircraft shall be responsible for operation
 in accordance with applicable company weather minima.

5.7.2 Aerodrome will be closed:

 a. When the surface of the landing area is unfit (e.g. soft surface or dangerous obstruction on the manoeuvring
 area); or
 b. At such other times and in conditions specified by NOTAM.

5.7.3 In an emergency, an aircraft will be permitted to land regardless of the conditions of the aerodrome and aerodrome
 facilities, but the pilot will be advised of these conditions.

5.8 REGULATING OF AIR TRAFFIC MOVEMENTS AFTER CLOSURE OF SINGAPORE
 CHANGI AIRPORT'S RUNWAY/CONTROL ZONE
5.8.1 In order to prevent unnecessary air traffic congestion which normally occurs following the resumption of air traffic
 operations after the closure of the Singapore Changi Airport’s Runways/Control Zone, due to VIP Movement or
 Major Air Exercise, slot-times will be introduced to regulate the flow of aircraft which are scheduled to depart
 for a period of at least one hour after the commencement of operations. Thus, depending on the prevailing traffic
 conditions all such departures will be spaced at intervals of 5 minutes or more to minimise unnecessary delays
 on the ground, which may be caused by arriving aircraft.

5.8.2 During the one hour period, pilots will be required to give ATC 5 minutes notice prior to starting engines.

5.8.3 Slot time is defined as the time during which take-off clearance may be expected.

5.9 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL CLEARANCES
5.9.1 All flights within a CTR, or ATZ, irrespective of weather conditions, require an air traffic control clearance.

5.9.2 The pilot-in-command of an aircraft departing from a CTR or an ATZ shall obtain an air traffic control clearance
 prior to departure.

5.9.3 A clearance to enter or cross a CTR or ATZ will include the following information:

 a. A clearance limit and holding instructions, if necessary;
 b. The route to be flown; and
 c. The altitude or flight level.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.1-10 AIP Singapore
08 NOV 2018

5.10 NOISE ABATEMENT PROCEDURE
5.10.1 To alleviate the problem of noise, all aircraft on Awy G579 between SINJON and JAYBEE shall operate at/above
 5,000ft.

5.11 SPEED CONTROL PROCEDURES FOR ARRIVALS INTO AIRPORTS IN SINGAPORE
5.11.1 Speed control procedures are in force unless notified otherwise by ATC or on ATIS.

5.11.2 All arriving turbo-propeller and turbo-jet aircraft are to fly at not faster than indicated air speed 250knots when
 within 40NM from Singapore Changi Airport or when at or below 10,000ft, except all arriving aircraft into Singapore
 Changi Airport shall comply with the speed restrictions depicted on the transitions and RNAV STARs. Further
 speed reductions will be regulated by ATC as necessary.

5.11.3 All arrivals into Singapore Changi Airport will be issued instructions by ATC to maintain 180KT till 8NM from
 touchdown and thereafter 150kt till 4NM from touchdown.

5.11.4 Pilots who may not be able to comply with the speed limits specified above for reasons of flight safety and/or
 weather should inform ATC and state the speed(s) acceptable.

5.12 AUTHORIZATION
5.12.1 Either an IFR clearance or a Special VFR authorisation shall be issued by Air Traffic Control prior to every
 movement within a control zone in the following weather conditions:

 When the ceiling is less than 1,500ft and/or a visibility less than 5km.

5.12.2 The deciding factors determining whether conditions are such that compliance with IFR or Special VFR
 authorisation is required will be the official meteorological observations.

5.12.3 When a pilot so requests and traffic conditions permit, Special VFR flight may be authorised within control zones,
 clear of cloud and in sight of land or water.

5.12.4 When a Special VFR flight has been authorised, ATC will provide it with standard separation from other similar
 flights and any IFR flight.

5.12.5 Special VFR flights will not normally be given a special level to fly; they will be merely instructed to remain clear
 of cloud and in sight of land or water. If, however, it is necessary to provide vertical separation from aircraft
 above, the Special VFR flight will be instructed not to fly above a certain level.

5.12.6 A Special VFR flight may be required to make good a prescribed track. When no track is prescribed, the pilot
 must fly directly towards his destination or towards the first turning point shown in the flight plan.

5.12.7 Special VFR absolves the pilot from complying with Instrument Flight Rules. Special VFR flight does not, however,
 absolve the pilot-in-command from the responsibility of maintaining minimum safe levels as prescribed in Part
 2, para 5 of the eleventh Schedule of the Air Navigation Order. He must comply with ATC instructions and it will
 be entirely his responsibility to ensure that his flight conditions i.e. forward visibility and distance from cloud, will
 enable him to determine his flight path and remain clear of all obstructions.

5.12.8 Authorisation for Special VFR flight will depend not only upon zonal traffic conditions but also whether or not
 air/ground communications can be maintained and the extent of the flight proposed.

5.13 APPLICATION OF GENERAL FLIGHT RULES
5.13.1 Aircraft flying under Special VFR authorisation are subject to the general flight rules. Compliance with these
 rules is the responsibility of the pilot.

6 REQUIREMENTS FOR AERIAL PHOTOGRAPHY
6.1 Section 7 of the Air Navigation Act provides that no aerial photography of protected places in Singapore may
 be undertaken without the written permission of the Director-General of Civil Aviation. Applications for Aerial
 Photography Permits must be submitted in duplicate, one copy to the Director-General of Civil Aviation and the
 other copy to the Head, Field Security Branch, MINDEF, at least ten (10) days prior to the date of the photography
 flight.



© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2018
ENR 1.1-12 AIP Singapore
08 NOV 2018

8 DATA LINK SERVICES IN SINGAPORE FIR

8.1 INTRODUCTION
8.1.1 Data link services are available to FANS 1/A compatible aircraft (which are compliant to RTCA DO- 258A or
 ED EUROCAE 100A) on ATS Routes G334, L504, L517, L625, L642, L644, L649, M646, M753, M758, M761,
 M767, M768, M771, M772, M904, N875, N884, N891 and N892 in the Singapore FIR daily on a 24-hour basis.

8.1.2 The introduction of data link services does not affect current procedures for non-data link equipped aircraft
 operating in the same airspace.

8.2 BACKGROUND
8.2.1 Controller Pilot Data Link Communications (CPDLC) and Automatic Dependent Surveillance (ADS) data link
 applications will be used to provide services to FANS 1/A equipped aircraft, in particular within the Singapore
 FIR beyond the range of existing radar / ADS-B and VHF voice communications. Area Navigation (RNAV) routes
 suitable for ADS-C and / or CPDLC logon are described in ENR 3.3.

8.2.2 Messages will be transferred by VHF and satellite data link.

8.2.3 CPDLC supports the following services:

 a. Emergency alerting;

 b. Pilot to Controller downlink of position reports and clearance requests;

 c. Controller to Pilot uplink of ATC clearances and instructions; and

 d. Free text as a supplement to pre-formatted message elements.


8.2.4 Pre-Departure Clearance (PDC) via CPDLC is available on selected ATS routes/destinations as described in
 WSSS AD 2.22 paragraph 8.4.

8.2.5 Automatic Dependent Surveillance (ADS) supports automatic reporting by the aircraft Flight Management
 System (FMS) of aircraft position and intent information. The FMS reports the required information in accordance
 with parameters selected by the ground system.

8.3 LOGON PROCEDURES
8.3.1 The AFN LOGON address for the Singapore FIR is WSJC.

8.3.2 To avoid automatic rejection of the LOGON, the flight identification number used by the pilot in the LOGON
 process must be identical to the flight identification number filed in the flight plan.

8.3.3 A LOGON must be received from the aircraft before any data link connections can be initiated by the ground
 system. This is achieved via the ATS facility notification (AFN) LOGON process to be initiated by the pilot in
 accordance with company procedures.

8.3.4 Aircraft requesting data link services inbound to Singapore FIR are required to manually LOGON onto WSJC
 at least 10 minutes prior to the estimated time for entering Singapore FIR. Data link equipped aircraft departing
 from aerodromes within the Singapore FIR and requesting data link may LOGON to WSJC prior to departure.
 Pilots who are unable to establish a data link connection are to inform ATC on VHF or HF RTF.

8.3.5 Pilots are reminded to provide the flight level on first contact with HF, including when established on data link.




AIP AMDT 06/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.1-13
 08 NOV 2018

8.4 APPLICATION OF CPDLC
8.4.1 Aircraft operating outside radar coverage and not in the ADS-B exclusive airspace within the Singapore FIR
 shall establish contact with ATC using CPDLC as a primary means of communication except for the following:

 a. prior instruction to contact ATC on VHF;
 b. receive notice that CPDLC service is not available; and
 c. during data link outage.

8.4.2 To ensure the correct synchronisation of messages, controller/pilot dialogues opened by CPDLC must be closed
 by CPDLC. Controller/pilot dialogues opened by voice must be closed by voice.

8.4.3 Due to inherent integrity checks and a coded reference to any preceding related message contained within
 CPDLC messages, a clearance issued by CPDLC requires only the appropriate CPDLC response, not a read-back
 as would be required if the clearance had been issued by voice.

8.4.4 The down link response “WILCO” indicates that the pilot accepts the full terms of the whole uplink message.

8.4.5 A down link response “AFFIRM” is not an acceptable acknowledgement or reply to a CLEARANCE issued by
 CPDLC.

8.4.6 To avoid ambiguity in message handling and response, a CPDLC downlink message should not contain more
 than one clearance request.

8.4.7 If multiple clearance requests are contained in a single downlink message and the controller cannot approve all
 requests, the uplink message element “UNABLE” will be sent as a response to the entire message. A separate
 message containing a response to those requests that can be complied with will be sent by the controller.

8.4.8 If any ambiguity exists as to the intent of a particular message, clarification must be sought by voice.

8.4.9 Standard pre-formatted message elements must be used whenever possible. Free text messages should be
 used only when an appropriate pre-formatted message element does not exist or to supplement the pre-formatted
 message element. The use of free text should be kept to a minimum.

8.4.10 When CPDLC connection is established, aircraft will be instructed to transfer from voice to CPDLC.
 The phraseology used is:
 TRANSFER TO SINGAPORE CONTROL ON DATA LINK [position];
 MONITOR [HF frequency primary/secondary]

8.4.11 Pilots should down link a CPDLC position report upon position over first compulsory reporting point when aircraft
 enters Singapore FIR. Pilots are also required to make AIREPS at ATS/MET reporting points using CPDLC
 regardless of ADS connection.

8.4.12 CPDLC connections will be terminated at the FIR boundary position or when entering radar coverage. The
 CONTACT [unit name][frequency] message and the END SERVICE message will be sent as separate messages.
 The END SERVICE message will be sent as soon as possible after receipt of the WILCO response to the
 CONTACT message.

8.5 APPLICATION OF ADS
8.5.1 ADS Periodic contracts will be established automatically on receipt of a LOGON.

8.5.2 The Periodic reporting rate is 10 minutes for aircraft operating outside radar coverage and 20 minutes for aircraft
 operating within radar coverage.

8.5.3 For ADS logged-on aircraft, CPDLC position reports are not required except when the following event occurs:

 a. upon position over first compulsory reporting point when aircraft enters Singapore FIR;
 b. aircraft at ATS/MET reporting point.

8.5.4 ADS contracts will be terminated automatically at a system parameter time after the aircraft has left the Singapore
 FIR.




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2018
ENR 1.1-14 AIP Singapore
08 NOV 2018

8.6 DATA LINK FAILURE
8.6.1 Pilots recognising a failure of a CPDLC connection must immediately establish communications on the appropriate
 voice frequency. When voice communications have been established, voice must continue to be used as the
 primary medium until a CPDLC connection has been re-established and the controller has authorised the return
 to data link.

8.6.2 In the event of an expected CPDLC shutdown, the controller will immediately advise all data link connected
 aircraft of the failure by voice. Instructions will continue to be issued by voice until the return of the data link
 system. The return of the system to an operational state will require a new AFN LOGON from the affected
 aircraft.

8.7 FLIGHT PLAN NOTIFICATION
8.7.1 Aircraft planning to utilise data link communications must annotate their ICAO flight plan as follows:

 a. Data link communication serviceability and capability must be notified by inserting one or more of the
 following letters in Item 10a (radio communication, navigation and approach aid equipment and capabilities):

 J1 CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2
 J2 CPDLC FANS 1/A HFDL
 J3 CPDLC FANS 1/A VDL Mode A
 J4 CPDLC FANS 1/A VDL Mode 2
 J5 CPDLC FANS 1/A SATCOM (INMARSAT)
 J6 CPDLC FANS 1/A SATCOM (MTSAT)
 J7 CPDLC FANS 1/A SATCOM (Iridium)
 P1 CPDLC RCP 400
 P2 CPDLC RCP 240
 P3 SATVOICE RCP 400
 P4-P9 Reserved for RCP

 b. Aircraft registration must be inserted in Item 18 as the ground system uses the information during the
 AFN LOGON.

 c. Serviceable ADS equipment carried must be annotated on the flight plan by adding one or more of the
 following descriptors to describe the serviceable surveillance equipment and/or capabilities on board:

 B1 ADS-B with dedicated 1090MHz ADS-B “out” capability
 B2 ADS-B with dedicated 1090MHz ADS-B “out” and “in” capability
 U1 ADS-B “out” capability using UAT
 U2 ADS-B “out” and “in” capability using UAT
 V1 ADS-B “out” capability using VDL Mode 4
 V2 ADS-B “out” and “in” capability using VDL Mode 4
 D1 ADS-C with FANS 1/A capabilities
 G1 ADS-C with ATN capabilities

 d. Additional surveillance equipment or capabilities are to be listed in Item 18 following the indicator
 SUR/ .

9 WEATHER DEVIATION PROCEDURES FOR USE IN THE SINGAPORE FIR

9.1 GENERAL
9.1.1 Deviations applicable in the South China Sea airspace, particularly outside the coverage of direct controller-pilot
 VHF communication.

9.1.2 These procedures are intended to enhance ICAO Regional Supplementary Procedures (DOC 7030). However,
 it must be recognised that all possible circumstances cannot be covered. The pilot’s judgement shall ultimately
 determine the sequence of actions taken and ATC shall render all possible assistance.

9.1.3 If an aircraft is required to deviate from track to avoid weather and prior clearance cannot be obtained, an ATC
 clearance shall be obtained at the earliest possible time. In the meantime, the aircraft shall broadcast its position
 (including the ATS route designator or the track code, as appropriate) and intentions on frequency 121.5MHz
 at suitable intervals until ATC clearance is received.

9.1.4 The pilot shall advise ATC when weather deviation is no longer required or when a weather deviation has been
 completed and the aircraft has returned to its cleared track.


AIP AMDT 06/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.1-15
 08 NOV 2018

9.2 OBTAINING ATC PRIORITY WHEN WEATHER DEVIATION IS REQUIRED
9.2.1 When the pilot initiates communications with ATC, rapid response may be obtained by stating that “WEATHER
 DEVIATION IS REQUIRED” to indicate that priority is desired on the frequency and for ATC response.

9.2.2 The pilot also retains the option of initiating the communication using the urgency call “PAN-PAN” 3 times to
 alert all listening parties of a special handling condition which will receive ATC priority for issuance of a clearance
 or assistance.

9.3 ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN WHEN PILOT-CONTROLLER COMMUNICATIONS ARE
 ESTABLISHED
9.3.1 When two-way pilot-controller communications are in effect, and a pilot identifies the need to deviate from track
 to avoid weather, the pilot shall notify ATC and request clearance to deviate from track, advising where possible
 the extent of the deviation expected.

9.3.2 ATC will then take one of the following actions:

 i. if there is no conflicting traffic in the lateral dimension, ATC shall issue clearance to deviate from track;
 ii. if there is conflicting traffic in the lateral dimension, ATC shall separate aircraft by establishing vertical
 separation and issue a clearance to deviate from track;
 iii. if there is conflicting traffic in the lateral dimension, and ATC is unable to establish vertical separation,
 ATC shall advise the pilot and provide information on all other aircraft with which the aircraft could potentially
 conflict.

9.3.3 The pilot shall comply with the ATC clearance issued for the deviation or, if ATC is unable to issue a revised
 clearance, and after evaluating the circumstances of the situation, the pilot shall execute the procedures detailed
 in paragraph 9.4 below. The pilot shall immediately inform ATC of intentions and ATC will issue essential traffic
 information to all affected aircraft.

9.3.4 The pilot shall, at regular intervals, update ATC of the extent and progress of the deviation to ensure that
 separation applied is not infringed or to enable ATC to update essential traffic information.

9.4 ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN WHEN PILOT-CONTROLLER COMMUNICATIONS ARE NOT
 ESTABLISHED OR REVISED ATC CLEARANCE IS NOT AVAILABLE
9.4.1 If contact cannot be established, or a revised ATC clearance is not available and deviation from track is required
 to avoid weather, the pilot shall take the following actions:

 a. deviate away from an organised track or route system, if possible;

 b. broadcast aircraft position and intentions on frequency 121.5MHz at suitable intervals stating:

 i. flight identification;
 ii. flight level;
 iii. track code or ATS route designator; and
 iv. extent of deviation expected.

 c. watch for conflicting traffic both visually and by reference to TCAS (if equipped);

 d. turn on aircraft exterior lights;

 e. when the aircraft is approximately 10NM from track, initiate a level change

 f. when returning to track, be established at the assigned flight level or altitude when the aircraft is within
 approximately 10NM of track;

 g. if contact cannot be established prior to deviation, continue to attempt to contact ATC to obtain a clearance.
 If contact is subsequently established, continue to keep ATC advised of intentions and obtain essential
 traffic information.




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2018
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.2-1
 21 JUL 2016


 ENR 1.2 VISUAL FLIGHT RULES
1. Except when operating as a special VFR flight, VFR flights within Singapore FIR shall be conducted so that the
 aircraft is flown in conditions of visibility and distance from clouds equal to or greater than those specified.
 

2. An aircraft operating in Class G airspace flying at speeds of 140kt or less may operate under VFR at or below
 3 000ft outside controlled airspace with a flight visibility of at least 1.5km. An aircraft flying at speeds above
 140kt IAS may operate under VFR with a flight visibility of at least 5km. In both cases, the aircraft must remain
 clear of cloud and in sight of ground or water.

3. Except when a clearance is obtained from air traffic control, VFR flights shall not take off or land at an aerodrome
 within a control zone, or enter the aerodrome traffic zone or traffic pattern:

 a. when the ceiling is less than 450m (1 500ft); or
 b. when the ground visibility is less than 5km.

4. Unless authorized, VFR flights shall not be operated:

 a. above FL200;
 b. at transonic and supersonic speeds.

5. Except when necessary for take-off or landing, or except by permission from the authority, a VFR flight shall not
 be flown:

 a. over the congested areas of cities, towns or settlements or over an open-air assembly of persons at a
 height less than 300m (1 000ft) above the highest obstacle within a radius of 600m from the aircraft;
 b. elsewhere than as specified in 5. a, at a height less than 150m (500ft)above the ground or water.

6. Except where otherwise indicated in air traffic control clearances, VFR flights in level cruising flight when operated
 above 900m (3 000ft) from the ground or water, shall be conducted at a cruising level appropriate to the track
 as specified in the tables of cruising levels in ENR 1.7-5.

7. VFR flights shall comply with air traffic control instructions

 a. when operated within Classes B, C and D airspace;
 b. when forming part of aerodrome traffic at controlled aerodromes; or
 c. when operated as special VFR flights.

8. A VFR flight operating within or into areas, or along Routes shall maintain continuous air-ground voice
 communication watch on the appropriate communication channel of, and report its position as necessary, to
 the air traffic services unit providing flight information service.

9. An aircraft operated in accordance with the visual flight rules which wishes to change to comply with the instrument
 flight rules shall:

 a. if a flight plan was submitted, communicate the necessary changes to be effected to its current flight plan;
 or
 b. submit a flight plan to the appropriate air traffic services unit and obtain a clearance prior to proceeding
 IFR in controlled airspace.

10. Helicopters may be permitted to operate in less than 1.5km flight visibility, if manoeuvred at a speed that will
 give adequate opportunity to observe other traffic or any obstacles in time to avoid collision.

11. In the case of helicopters, navigation shall be accomplished by visual reference to landmarks at least every
 110km (60NM)


© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2016
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.3-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 1.3 INSTRUMENT FLIGHT RULES
1 In instrument meteorological conditions pilots shall operate in accordance with the instrument flight rules except
 that within a control zone, a special VFR flight may be authorised.

2 Flights shall be conducted in accordance with the Instrument Flight Rules (even when not operating in instrument
 meteorological conditions) when operated:

 a. More than 185km (100NM) seaward from the shoreline within controlled airspace; or

 b. During the hours between sunset and sunrise; or

 c. Above FL200.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.4-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 1.4 ATS AIRSPACE CLASSIFICATION

1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 The airspace in the Singapore FIR has been classified in accordance with Appendix 4 of ICAO Annex 11.

 Aircraft operating in Light Aircraft Training Areas A, B and C (refer to page ENR 5.2-1) are required to have
 continuous two-way communications with the appropriate ATS authority.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.5-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 1.5 HOLDING, APPROACH AND DEPARTURE PROCEDURES

1 GENERAL
1.1 The holding, approach and departure procedures in use throughout the Singapore FIR are developed in
 accordance with the criteria contained in ICAO DOC 8168-OPS/611: Procedures for Air Navigation Services -
 Operations (PANS-OPS).

1.1.1 To ensure conformity with associated procedures, this section should be read in conjunction with section ENR
 1.

1.1.2 An aircraft approaching an aerodrome under IFR for the purpose of making a landing shall conform to the holding
 and instrument approach procedures for the radio navigational aid employed as prescribed in the appropriate
 Instrument Approach charts AD-2-WSSS-IAC-1 to AD-2-WSSS-IAC-11.

1.1.3 Pilots will be expected to know the correct holding, approach and departure procedures.

 Note: Due to military operations above, below and adjacent to controlled airspace within the Singapore/Johor
 Airspace Complex, pilots unable to remain within 500ft of the vertical limits, or within the lateral limits of the
 controlled airspace are required to advise ATC immediately.

1.2 HOLDING PROCEDURES
1.2.1 Initial approach tracks and holding patterns associated with Singapore Airports are detailed in charts ENR 3.6-5,
 ENR 3.6-7 and ENR 3.6-9. Holding patterns for other airfields are indicated on the applicable approach charts.

1.3 LOW LEVEL HOLDING AREAS
1.3.1 The holding areas for procedural traffic landing at Singapore Changi Airport or Seletar Airport depend on the
 runway in use at Singapore Changi Airport and are as follows:

 a. RWY 02L/02C - SAMKO Holding Area (SHA) - Lower/Upper limits - 3,500ft / FL140.
 b. RWY 20R/20C - NYLON Holding Area (NHA) - Lower/Upper limits - 2,500ft / FL140.

1.3.2 Details of these holding areas and those mentioned in paras 1.3.3 and 1.3.4 are given in sub-section ENR 3.6.
 They are also shown in charts ENR 3.6-7 and ENR 3.6-9.

1.3.3 An intermediate holding area - HOSBA Holding Area (HHA) - is also established. The lower/upper limits are
 7,000ft/FL140.

1.3.4 A bad weather holding area - SINJON Holding Area - is established for Seletar bound commercial traffic. The
 lower/upper limits are 4 500ft/FL140.

1.4 HIGH LEVEL HOLDING AREAS
1.4.1 High Level Holding Areas are also established at NHA, SHA and HHA. The lower/upper limits are FL150/FL250.
 Details of these areas are given in sub-section ENR 3.6.

1.5 HOLDING SPEEDS
1.5.1 The maximum holding speed for all low level holding areas is 230kt.

1.5.2 The maximum holding speed for all high level holding areas is 265kt.

1.5.3 During conditions of turbulence, pilots could request ATC clearance to hold at speeds up to 280kt for both high
 and low level holding areas.

1.6 STANDARD INSTRUMENT DEPARTURE (SID) AND STANDARD INSTRUMENT
 ARRIVAL (STAR)
 Pilots departing from and landing at Singapore Changi Airport should refer to the procedures in charts
 AD-2-WSSS-SID-1 to AD-2-WSSS-STAR-21.

2 ARRIVING FLIGHTS

2.1 INSTRUMENT APPROACH PROCEDURES
2.1.1 Pilots making instrument approaches to Singapore Changi Airport should refer to the procedures in charts
 AD-2-WSSS-IAC-1 to AD-2-WSSS-IAC-11.



© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.5-2 AIP Singapore
17 AUG 2017

2.2 CATEGORY I ILS APPROACHES
2.2.1 Category I ILS approaches are generally available on RWY 02L/20R and RWY 02C/20C at Singapore Changi
 Airport. Pilots making Category I ILS approaches to Singapore Changi Airport should refer to the procedures
 in charts AD-2-WSSS-IAC-1 to AD-2-WSSS-IAC-11.

2.3 CATEGORY II ILS APPROACHES
 (refer to WSSS AD 2-22 for details)

2.4 VISUAL APPROACH PROCEDURES
2.4.1 An IFR flight operating into Singapore Changi Airport may be cleared for a visual approach subject to the following
 conditions:

 a. the pilot has the aerodrome in sight and can conduct his approach with visual reference to terrain;

 b. the flight will not cause delay to other traffic;

 c. there is no conflicting tall vessel movement;

 d. the cloud ceiling at the aerodrome is 4,000ft or more for landing on RWY 20 and 3,000ft or more for landing
 on RWY 02; and

 e. the visibility at the aerodrome is 5km or more.


2.4.2 Notwithstanding para 2.4.1(d) and 2.4.1(e), if the pilot reports that he has the aerodrome in sight and can conduct
 his approach with visual reference to terrain, the flight may be cleared for a visual approach.

2.4.3 Pilots may expect radar vectoring for separation and sequencing with other traffic prior to being cleared for a
 visual approach.

2.5 INSTRUMENT APPROACHES TO SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT - MAXIMUM VESSEL
 HEIGHT
2.5.1 There are possible tall vessel movements in waters around Singapore Changi Airport. As these mobile vessels
 vary in height and location, they are only indicated as “possible vessel" obstacles in the instrument approach
 charts.

2.5.2 Information on the heights of these tall vessels are relayed to ATC by the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore
 for ATC to decide on whether it should allow a particular instrument approach to Singapore Changi Airport.

2.6 MAXIMUM VESSEL HEIGHT
2.6.1 The vessel’s maximum height allowed for each instrument approach procedure and its closest distance to
 runway threshold used in the design of the procedure are given in the following table:



AIP AMDT 05/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.5-3
 10 OCT 2019

3 DEPARTING FLIGHTS

3.1 INTRODUCTION
 a. The Instrument Departure Procedures are only applicable for aircraft with all engines operating. It remains
 the responsibility of the operator to develop contingency procedures for the individual type of aeroplane
 and to conduct the necessary examination of obstacles throughout the areas concerned in relation to the
 certificated performance of the individual aeroplane type. It is also the responsibility of the operator to
 ensure that contingency procedures comply fully with the aeroplane performance requirements of ICAO
 Annex 6.

 b. The specific routes to be followed are depicted in SID charts AD-2-WSSS-SID-1 to AD-2-WSSS-SID-18.
 Altitude restrictions at fixes and/or DME specify ATC/airspace requirements.

 c. Minimum climb gradient specifies obstacle clearance requirements.

 d. In the event that the minimum climb gradient cannot be achieved pilots shall inform ATC. ATC shall hold
 departures if pilots indicate that they are unable to meet the required climb gradient.


3.2 RUNWAY 02L
 a. When there are no reports of vessel movement along the northern shipping channel or where the reported
 vessel height is less than 32m AMSL, all aircraft departures on Runway 02L, regardless of on SID or
 vectors, shall be on a minimum climb gradient of 3.3%.

 b. Where the reported vessel height is 33m or higher, ATC shall advise departing pilots of the vessel height.
 Pilots on receipt of this information shall apply the minimum climb gradient in accordance with the following
 table:

 MINIMUM CROSSING ALTITUDE OVER
 HGT OF VESSEL Gradient VESSEL
 (metres AMSL) (%)
 (metres) (feet)
 33 3.4 39 125
 40 4.0 49 158
 50 4.9 59 191
 60 5.8 69 224
 70 6.8 79 257
 80 7.8 89 290
 90 8.8 99 322
 100 9.7 109 355
 110 10.7 119 388
 120 11.7 129 421
 130 12.7 139 454
 140 13.7 149 486

 c. After the aircraft has reached or passed the minimum crossing altitude over vessel, the minimum climb
 gradient shall be 3.3%.


3.3 RUNWAY 02C
 a. When there are no reports of vessel movement along the northern shipping channel or where the reported
 vessel height is less than 69m AMSL, all aircraft departures on Runway 02C, regardless of on SID or
 vectors, shall be on a minimum climb gradient of 3.3%.

 b. Where the reported vessel height is 70m or higher, ATC shall advise departing pilots of the vessel height.
 Pilots on receipt of this information shall apply the minimum climb gradient in accordance with the following
 table:

 c. After the aircraft has reached or passed the minimum crossing altitude over vessel, the minimum climb
 gradient shall be 3.3%.


3.4 RUNWAYS 20C AND 20R
3.4.1 All aircraft departures on Runway 20C, regardless of on SID or vectors, shall be on a minimum climb gradient
 of 7% until reaching or passing 2,500ft. Thereafter, the minimum climb gradient shall be 3.3%.

3.4.2 All aircraft departures on Runway 20R, regardless of on SID or vectors, shall be on a minimum climb gradient
 of 6% until reaching or passing 2,500ft. Thereafter, the minimum climb gradient shall be 3.3%.

 (Please also refer to charts AD-2-WSSS-SID-1 to AD-2-WSSS-SID-18: Standard Instrument Departures for
 Runway 20C and Runway 20R).

3.5 DETERMINATION OF CLIMB GRADIENT BY OPERATORS
3.5.1 The minimum climb gradients specified above need not apply to operators who wish to calculate their own climb
 gradients based on actual lift-off point, provided the calculation ensures the following:

 i. The most penalising obstacle is taken into account under both all engines operating procedures as well
 as one engine out procedures; and

 ii. The required minimum obstacle clearance (MOC) is met under all engines operating procedures.


3.5.2 For the above calculations, operators shall use the following information:

 a. The most penalising obstacle is a tall vessel which is on the extended centre line of the runway. (ATC
 shall advise pilots of the height of the tall vessel).

 b. The required MOC in 3.5.1 (ii) is 0.8% of the distance d from the departure end of runway (DER) to the
 obstacle, in accordance with Vol II of ICAO Doc 8168: Procedures for Air Navigation Services Operations
 (PANS-OPS) where, in the case of Singapore Changi Airport, the DER is defined as the end of the
 clearway.

 c. The distance d for departure Runways 02L and 02C is measured from the DER to the shipping channel
 north of Changi. The distance d for departure Runways 20C and 20R is measured from the DER to the
 boundary of the restricted waters south of Changi wherein tall vessels of height above 49m AMSL are not
 permitted. The distance d for the various departure runways is as follows:



AIP AMDT 06/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.6-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 1.6 ATC SURVEILLANCE SERVICES AND PROCEDURES

1 PRIMARY RADAR

1.1 DESCRIPTION OF PRIMARY RADAR SERVICES AND PROCEDURES
1.1.1 Radar control service is provided to identified aircraft operating in controlled airspace. The approximate area
 within which radar services are provided is shown in Table A on page ENR 1.6-7. Positive traffic separation
 service is provided. This involves monitoring the navigation of, or issuing instructions for, the navigation of an
 aircraft, to ensure that radar separation standards are maintained between identified aircraft and other aircraft
 in controlled airspace.

1.1.2 Radar advisory service is provided to aircraft operating outside controlled airspace. This service may be provided
 to identified aircraft subject to radar coverage and workload and involves the provision of position information
 to aircraft to assist in its navigation, warnings of other aircraft operating in its proximity and assistance to aircraft
 in an emergency. Advice and/or suggestion to pilots will be given. Aircraft receiving radar advisory service are
 not obliged to follow instructions given by ATC.

1.1.3 Radar control will be exercised outside controlled airspace only in respect of aircraft which are intending to enter
 or cross controlled airspace.

1.1.4 Singapore Radar Units will use the following callsigns when providing radar service:

 a. Aircraft under Area Control (ACC) - Singapore Radar;

 b. Aircraft under Approach Control (ACR)

 i. Flow Control;
 ii. Singapore Approach;
 iii. Singapore Arrival.
 (See Table A in page ENR 1.6-7)


1.1.5 The minimum horizontal radar separation are:

 a. 7NM beyond 150NM from Singapore Changi Airport;
 b. 5NM up to 150NM from Singapore Changi Airport.

1.1.6 Whenever SSR is used without its associated primary radar the separation minimum in a) and b) are increased
 to 15NM and 10NM respectively.

1.1.7 Radar separation may be reduced to 3NM provided the following conditions exist:

 a. Aircraft are under the Terminal Approach Control Radar Unit;
 b. Aircraft are below FL245;
 c. Aircraft are within 40NM of Singapore Changi Airport.

1.1.8 It is not possible to specify separation minima between identified aircraft and unknown traffic considered to
 constitute a hazard due to unpredictable manoeuvres of the latter. However, whenever practicable, the minimum
 radar separation shall be applied.

1.2 AIRCRAFT IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES
1.2.1 Before providing a radar service aircraft will be identified by one of the following methods:

 a. By a pilot report over a prescribed position displayed on the radar map or plotted on the radar map outlay;

 b. By issuing instructions to a pilot to carry out a turn or turns or by observing a turn or turns reported by a
 pilot;

 c. By observing and correlating the radar echo of a departing aircraft to a known airborne time;

 d. By the use of SSR.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.6-2 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

1.3 RADAR NAVIGATION
1.3.1 Whether or not radar control is being applied, navigation along the authorised flight routes is normally the
 responsibility of the pilot-in-command but, for a number of reasons, primarily the separation and expedition of
 traffic, the radar controller may require to establish positive control. Pilots will be advised when radar navigation
 of the aircraft is terminated whereupon pilots will resume their own navigation.

1.3.2 Position information will be given as follows:

 a. A well-known geographical position;

 b. Bearing and distance (using points of the compass) from a known position;

 c. Magnetic heading (QDM) and distance to the appropriate reporting point or en-route navigational facility;

 d. A distance to the runway touchdown point (as “track miles” to run).


1.4 WEATHER AVOIDANCE AND STORM WARNING RADAR
1.4.1 Modern ATC radar equipment are normally designed to suppress weather clutter and the radar controller may
 not always be aware of its presence. If, however, weather is observed the radar controller may pass this
 information to the pilot, if it appears likely to affect his flight.

1.4.2 When this service is provided to aircraft within controlled airspace, the pilot will be advised by the radar controller
 if the action will result in the aircraft leaving controlled airspace. The pilot will be responsible for deciding whether
 to accept a detour into uncontrolled airspace.

1.4.3 If an aircraft is equipped with storm warning radar and the pilot intends to detour a storm centre observed on
 his radar display, he should, when operating within controlled airspace, obtain clearance from the radar controller
 for his proposed action and, if leaving controlled airspace, request permission to rejoin. This is necessary to
 ensure that separation which the radar controller may be providing to other aircraft is not prejudiced. The pilot
 may request navigational assistance as necessary.

1.4.4 An aircraft flying in uncontrolled airspace under circumstances arising from paras 1.4.2 or 1.4.3 above will be
 provided with the following services.

1.4.5 When ATC initiates the diversion out of controlled airspace, as in para 1.4.2 above, the radar controller will
 provide avoiding action from unknown aircraft.

1.4.6 When the pilot initiates the weather detour, as in para 1.4.3 above, only advice on the position of unknown aircraft
 and the recommended action would be given e.g. “Unknown aircraft ten o’ clock, eight NM, crossing left to right.
 Advise turn right heading 090”.

1.5 MILITARY RADAR UNITS AUTHORISED TO PROVIDE RADAR CROSSING SERVICE
1.5.1 The Military Radar Units authorised to provide radar crossings of controlled areas (airways) by military aircraft
 are:

 a. RSAF 201 Squadron (Air Defence Radar Unit-ADRU); and

 b. RSAF 203 Squadron (Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre).


1.6 RADAR FAILURE
1.6.1 In the event of radar failure or loss of radar contact, instructions will be issued by the radar controller to restore
 standard longitudinal, lateral or vertical separation between those aircraft operating with radar separation.
 Instructions may also be given to aircraft to communicate on another ATC frequency.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.6-3
 12 NOV 2015

1.7 RADIO FAILURE
1.7.1 In the event of failure of two-way communications while operating on the radar frequency, the pilot shall change
 to any other alternative ATC frequencies and request instructions.

1.7.2 If able to receive but not transmit, the pilot shall remain on the frequency on which he has been communicating
 and comply with instructions issued by the radar controller designed to establish that the aircraft is receiving. If
 this is established, further instructions appropriate to the circumstances will be issued.

1.7.3 If unable to make contact on the alternative frequencies, the pilot shall comply with the standard radio failure
 procedures as specified below.

1.8 TOTAL RADIO COMMUNICATION FAILURE PROCEDURES
1.8.1 If total radio communication failure occurs in VMC during daylight hours, the pilot shall continue to fly in VMC
 and land at the most suitable aerodrome. If it occurs in VMC during the hours of darkness (between sunset and
 sunrise) action shall be taken in accordance with para 1.8.2 below.

1.8.2 If total radio communication failure occurs in IMC, ATC action is based on the assumption that the aircraft will
 continue to its destination and if unable to land, will proceed to its nominated alternate. Separation standards
 will be increased and airspace reserved accordingly. (see Appendices ‘A’ and ‘B’ , pages ENR 1.6-9 and 1.6-11).

1.8.3 In IMC, or if unable to maintain VFR, the pilot shall either leave or avoid controlled airspace and areas of dense
 traffic and establish VFR operation or, alternatively, shall:

 a. Proceed according to the current flight plan, at the last assigned flight level, to the clearance limit and
 thereafter at the flight plan level.

 b. Arrive at the destination as close as possible to ETA.

 c. Commence descent as close as possible to EAT (or ETA if no EAT has been acknowledged).

 d. If unable to land within 30 minutes of the time descent should have started (i.e. EAT or ETA if no EAT has
 been acknowledged), proceed to cross SAMKO Holding Area (SHA) at 4,000ft then via A457 at FL200
 if Kuala Lumpur is the nominated alternate or via B470 at FL290 if Soekarno- Hatta is the nominated
 alternate or otherwise proceed at the planned flight level to other nominated alternate.

 Note:

 1) Aircraft are to follow the established radio failure procedures as laid down by the respective airports.

 2) During this 30 minute period ATC will reserve the airspace at the aircraft’s flight level and below. At
 the expiry of this period with the concurrence of other users normal operations will resume.


1.8.4 In all cases, the pilot shall contact ATC as soon as possible after landing.

1.9 RADIO FAILURE - TRANSPONDER - EQUIPPED AIRCRAFT
1.9.1 Aircraft equipped with transponder shall set transponder to Mode A/C Code 7600.

1.9.2 Partial Radio Failure

 a. Aircraft Unable to Receive
 Pilots shall adopt the complete RTF failure procedures specified in para 1.8.

 b. Aircraft Able to Receive
 Following verification that aircraft is able to receive ground transmissions, ATC will continue to issue
 instructions and/or clearance to pilots. Such instructions and clearances will be repeated.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.6-4 AIP Singapore
17 AUG 2017

1.10 TOTAL RADIO FAILURE - SPECIAL PROCEDURES - SINGAPORE CHANGI AP -
 ARRIVALS
1.10.1 In VMC during daylight hours, if total radio communication failure occurs to an aircraft bound for Singapore
 Changi Airport, the pilot shall maintain VMC to land at the most suitable airfield and report to the appropriate
 air traffic control unit by the most expeditious means.

1.10.2 For IFR flights to SIngapore Changi Airport, aircraft experiencing radio failure shall:

 i. Proceed according to the last acknowledged clearance received from Singapore ATC, or

 ii. If no specific instructions or clearance has been received from Singapore ATC:

 a. Maintain the last assigned altitude or flight level and proceed via airways thereafter the appropriate
 STAR for RWY 02L/02C to SAMKO Holding Area (SHA) except for STARS KARTO 1A, MABAL
 2A and ELALO 1A, flight shall proceed to SHA after SANAT

 b. Commence descent from SHA at or as close as possible to the ETA as indicated on the flight plan.

 c. Carry out the appropriate instrument approach procedure from SHA to land on RWY 02L/02C.


 iii. If unable to effect a landing on:

 a. RWY 02L
 Carry out missed approach procedure to AKOMA (PU R-356/20DME). Leave AKOMA at 4,000ft
 to NYLON Holding Area (NHA) and execute the appropriate instrument procedure from NHA to
 land on RWY 20R or RWY 20C, as appropriate.

 b. RWY 02C
 Carry out missed approach procedure to NYLON Holding Area (NHA) and execute the appropriate
 instrument procedure from NHA to land on RWY 20R or RWY 20C, as appropriate.

 c. RWY 20R
 Carry out missed approach procedure to SAMKO Holding Area (SHA) and execute the appropriate
 instrument procedure from SHA to land on RWY 02L or RWY 02C, as appropriate.

 d. RWY 20C
 Carry out missed approach procedure to EXOMO (VTK R-158/22DME). Leave EXOMO at 4,000ft
 to SAMKO Holding Area (SHA) and execute the appropriate instrument procedure from SHA to
 land on RWY 02L or RWY 02C, as appropriate.



1.11 IDENTIFICATION OF RUNWAY-IN-USE
1.11.1 ATC will switch on the appropriate approach lights and the ILS serving the runway-in-use to assist the pilot in
 its identification. If the approach lights for the runway-in-use are sighted but the ILS frequency is not received,
 the pilot shall assume that the ILS is inoperative and shall proceed to land on the runway on which the approach
 lights have been sighted.

1.11.2 If unable to land within 30 minutes of EAT or ETA, if no EAT has been received and acknowledged, proceed in
 accordance with AIP page ENR 1.6-3 para 1.8.3 (d).

1.12 TOTAL RADIO FAILURE - SPECIAL PROCEDURES - SINGAPORE CHANGI AP -
 DEPARTURES
1.12.1 When an aircraft which has been cleared by ATC to an intermediate level experiences total radio communication
 failure immediately after departure from Singapore Changi Airport and it is deemed unsafe for it to continue to
 its destination, the pilot will set the aircraft transponder to Mode A/C Code 7600 and adhere to the procedures
 below.

1.12.2 When radio communication failure occurs immediately after the aircraft has departed on RWY 02L/ 02C, the
 pilot shall proceed according to the following procedures:

 1. Proceed straight ahead to NYLON Holding Area (NHA) climbing to the last assigned altitude. At NHA,
 climb/descend to maintain 7,000ft;

 2. Hold at NHA for 4 minutes and leave NHA on track 203°. At 10 DME north of VTK, turn left for HOSBA
 Holding Area (HHA) to jettison fuel, maintaining 7,000ft;



AIP AMDT 05/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.6-5
 15 AUG 2019

 3. After fuel jettison, proceed to SAMKO Holding Area (SHA) via Awy G580 and SINJON DVOR. Maintain
 7,000ft. At SHA descend for an instrument approach on RWY 02L/02C. Identify the runway-in-use in
 accordance with para 1.11 above.


1.12.3 When radio communication failure occurs immediately after the aircraft has departed on RWY 20R/ 20C, the
 pilot shall proceed according to the following procedures:

 a. Proceed straight ahead to SAMKO Holding Area (SHA) climbing to the last assigned altitude. At SHA
 climb/descend to maintain 7,000ft;

 b. Hold at SHA for 4 minutes. Leave SHA for HOSBA Holding Area (HHA) via SJ DVOR and Airway G580
 to jettison fuel, maintaining 7,000ft;

 c. After fuel jettison, proceed to NHA via Airway W401. Maintain 7,000ft. On crossing VTK 042R turn right
 to intercept VTK 023R. At NHA descend to carry out an instrument approach on RWY 20R/20C.


1.12.4 ATC action is based on the assumption that the aircraft will take a minimum of 10 min to jettison fuel. An aircraft
 therefore should not leave earlier than 10 min after arrival at HOSBA Holding Area even if fuel jettison is completed
 at a shorter time or if jettisoning is not necessary or possible unless circumstances require an immediate return.

1.12.5 Alternatively, aircraft may jettison fuel between HOSBA and point 80NM from VTK DVOR/DME on Airway G580.

1.13 TOTAL RADIO FAILURE - SPECIAL PROCEDURES - SELETAR AP - ARRIVALS
1.13.1 If total radio communication failure occurs in VMC during daylight hours to an aircraft bound for Seletar AD, the
 pilot shall continue to fly in VMC and land at the most suitable aerodrome.

1.13.2 If in IMC or when weather conditions are such that the total radio communication failure aircraft cannot complete
 its flight in accordance with 1.13.1, the pilot will EITHER:

 a. proceed in accordance with the last acknowledged clearance from ATC; OR

 b. if no specific instructions or clearances have been received and acknowledged:

 i. maintain the last assigned level and proceed via flight planned route, then to KK NDB;

 ii. commence descent from KK NDB at or as close as possible to the ETA Seletar AD as indicated on
 the flight plan or last EAT passed by ATC and acknowledged by aircraft;

 iii. leave KK NDB at 2,500ft and proceed to overhead Seletar;

 iv. if Seletar Aerodrome is visual, initiate the standard arrival procedures for RWY 21;

 v. if unable to effect a landing on RWY 21, carry out a missed approach at or below 1,500ft and land
 on RWY 03.



1.13.3 ATC will assist the pilot in identifying RWY-in-use by switching on the RWY lights and appropriate PAPI.

1.13.4 The pilot shall keep a look-out for light signals from Seletar Tower. On receipt of a green light from Seletar Tower,
 a landing may be made.

1.13.5 If unable to land within 30 minutes of ETA Seletar as indicated in the flight plan or last acknowledged EAT,
 aircraft will proceed to its flight planned alternate.

1.13.6 It is the pilot’s responsibility to ensure that he is clear of other traffic while carrying out the standard arrival
 procedure.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.6-6 AIP Singapore
29 MAR 2018

1.14 TOTAL RADIO FAILURE - SPECIAL PROCEDURES - SELETAR AP - DEPARTURES
1.14.1 If total radio communication failure occurs to a departing aircraft within the Seletar Control Zone, the pilot shall
 maintain 2,500ft and if Seletar Ad is visual, initiate the standard arrival procedures for RWY 21. If unable to
 effect a landing on RWY 21, carry out a missed approach at or below 1,500ft and land on RWY 03. When in
 the circuit, the pilot shall keep a look-out for light signals from Seletar Tower.

1.14.2 If departing aircraft experiences total radio communication failure outside the Seletar Control Zone, the pilot
 shall follow procedures as set out in paragraph 1.13.

1.14.3 At night, aircraft experiencing total radio communication failure will proceed to its flight planned alternate.

1.15 RADIO FAILURE - SPECIAL PROCEDURES - SELETAR AP - HELICOPTERS
1.15.1 Helicopters experiencing RTF failure should approach low level (not above 300ft) and fly past the Control Tower
 on the eastern side of the runway rocking laterally.

1.15.2 Unless the pilot unmistakenly sees a green light from the Tower, he is not to assume that he is cleared to land
 but is to carry out the same procedure again.

1.15.3 In each circumstance, it is the pilot’s responsibility to ensure that he is cleared of other circuit traffic and does
 not encroach on the approach of the runway.

1.16 RADIO FAILURE - SPECIAL PROCEDURES - SELETAR AP - FIXED WING AIRCRAFT
1.16.1 Aircraft experiencing radio failure are to descend on the western side of the runway to 600ft and rock the aircraft
 when passing abeam the Control Tower.

1.16.2 Unless the pilot unmistakenly sees a green light from the Tower, he is not to assume that he is cleared to land
 but is to carry out the same procedure again.

1.16.3 When carrying out radio failure procedure, the pilot-in-command shall not infringe the helicopter circuit whenever
 it is active and shall keep a sharp look-out for helicopters and other aircraft operating in the aerodrome circuit.

1.17 ACTION TAKEN BY ATC DURING RADIO FAILURE
1.17.1 In addition to the action specified in paragraph 1.8.2, if unable to establish normal communication with an aircraft,
 ATC will:

 a. Maintain separation between the aircraft and other aircraft known to be operating in its vicinity;
 b. Transmit essential information to the aircraft, including the flight levels reserved for its use, route to be
 flown, and any significant weather information, such as terminal weather, areas in which VMC may be
 expected, etc.;
 c. Advise other acft in the vicinity of the presumed psn of the acft experiencing radio failure;
 d. Use ground radar to check whether or not the aircraft is receiving and complying with ATC instructions,
 and to ensure separation from other aircraft;
 e. Inform the operator concerned or his representative;
 f. Inform the alternate aerodrome of the circumstances of the failure and request attempts to establish
 communication with the aircraft;
 g. Inform all concerned and end all radio failure actions if communication with aircraft is established and
 when aircraft lands.




AIP AMDT 02/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.6-7
 29 MAR 2018

2 SECONDARY SURVEILLANCE RADAR (SSR)

2.1 OPERATING PROCEDURES
2.1.1 All aircraft flying in controlled airspace in the Singapore FIR are required to operate SSR transponders selecting
 Mode 3/A (4096 codes) and Mode C simultaneously.

2.1.2 Aircraft dep Singapore shall operate transponders in accordance with instructions given by ATC.

2.1.3 Pilots who have received specific instructions from ATC concerning the setting of the transponder shall maintain
 that setting except in circumstances detailed in paragraphs 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4.

2.1.4 Aircraft bound for Singapore shall transpond on the SSR code last assigned to them by the adjacent FIR, or if
 no code has been previously assigned, advise the ATC unit concerned who will provide the required code.

2.2 EMERGENCY PROCEDURES
2.2.1 The pilot of an aircraft encountering a state of emergency shall set his transponder to Code 7700.

2.3 RADIO COMMUNICATION FAILURE
2.3.1 The pilot of an aircraft experiencing 2-way radio communication failure shall set his transponder to Code 7600.

2.4 SYSTEM OF SSR CODE ASSIGNMENT
2.4.1 Aircraft operating in the Singapore FIR will be assigned the following codes except for those aircraft already
 assigned codes by adjacent FIRs:




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2018
ENR 1.6-8 AIP Singapore
29 MAR 2018


 ENR 1.7 ALTIMETER SETTING PROCEDURES

1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 A common transition altitude of 11,000ft (3,350 metres) has been established in the Singapore Flight Information
 Region. This will ensure uniformity in the transition altitudes for aerodromes within the territories of Brunei,
 Malaysia and Singapore, except for an area of radius 10 nautical miles centred on Mount Kinabalu where the
 lowest safe altitude will be 15,000ft (4,570 metres) and the lowest usable flight level will be FL170.

1.2 The maximum variation in QNH values in the Singapore FIR does not exceed 10hPa either side of the standard
 setting 1013.2hPa, representing a change of about 300ft on the altimeter from QNH to 1013.2hPa. To simplify
 ATC procedures, therefore, a transition level of FL130 has been established, thus providing a transition layer
 of 2,000ft and ensuring at all times the 1,000ft vertical separation between aircraft.

1.3 No aircraft should therefore flight plan to cruise at flight levels 115, 120 and 125 when operating in the Singapore
 Flight Information Region.

1.4 AREA QNH ZONES (AQZ)
1.4.1 Within the airspace in the Singapore FIR.

1.5 AREA QNH
1.5.1 AREA QNH is the forecast value of the LOWEST mean sea level pressure within the AQZ, valid for a period of
 6 hours. e.g. AREA QNH valid 0600-1200.

1.5.2 AREA QNH as defined above, is one of the types of MET data required for the determination of the lowest flight
 level which will ensure adequate terrain clearance at any location within the AQZ during the period of validity.

1.5.3 Amendments are issued by MET when the mean sea level pressure at any location in the AQZ is expected to
 fall below the current AREA QNH by more than 2hPa, and units responsible for airspace in which aircraft could
 be operating on AREA QNH shall broadcast the amended value on all air/ground frequencies in use.

2 BASIC ALTIMETER SETTING PROCEDURES

2.1 Altimeter Setting Procedures
2.1.1 For flight at or below the transition altitude, the altimeter reference will be the AREA QNH. Flight will therefore
 be conducted in altitudes.

2.1.2 Change from LOCAL QNH (set for departure) to AREA QNH will be made on leaving the Singapore/Johor
 Airspace Complex or Aerodrome Traffic Zone after take-off.

2.1.3 Change from AREA QNH to LOCAL QNH will be made on entering Terminal Control Area or Aerodrome Traffic
 Zone or on commencement of final approach to land.

2.1.4 For flight at and above the transition level, the standard altimeter setting of 1013.2hPa will be used.

2.1.5 Change from AREA QNH to 1013.2hPa will be made on climb through the transition altitude.

2.1.6 Change from 1013.2hPa to AREA QNH will be made on descent through the transition level.

2.1.7 Cruising within the transition layer is not permitted unless specifically cleared by the ACC of that FIR.

2.1.8 Vertical displacement of aircraft when at or below the transition is expressed in terms of altitude whereas such
 displacement at or above the transition level is expressed in terms of flight level. While passing through the
 transition layer, vertical displacement is expressed in terms of altitude when descending and in terms of flight
 level when ascending.

2.1.9 Flight Level zero is located at the atmospheric pressure level of 1013.2hPa. Consecutive flight levels are separated
 by a pressure level corresponding to 500ft in the Standard Atmosphere.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.7-2 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019



2.2 TAKE-OFF AND CLIMB
2.2.1 A QNH altimeter setting shall be made available to aircraft by Approach/Aerodrome Control in the routine take-
 off and climb instructions.

2.2.2 Vertical displacement of aircraft during climb shall be effected by reference to altitude until reaching the transition
 altitude above which vertical displacement shall be effected by reference to flight level.

2.2.3 A QFE altimeter setting will be made available on request but reports to ATC are to be made in altitudes.

2.3 VERTICAL SEPARATION - ENROUTE
2.3.1 Aircraft en-route in the Singapore FIR (irrespective of whether IFR or VFR) shall be flown at flight levels or
 altitudes where appropriate.

2.3.2 It is the pilots’ responsibility to select a flight level which will give adequate terrain clearance using forecast
 pressure information.

2.3.3 For the purpose of en-route vertical separation IFR and VFR flights within controlled airspace and flights in
 uncontrolled airspace of the Singapore FIR, reference should be made to the following:

 a. Semi-circular system of cruising levels within all controlled airspace (IFR flights) (page ENR 1.7-4);
 b. VFR flights cruising levels up to FL150 within controlled airspace (page ENR 1.7-5);
 c. Quadrantal cruising levels in uncontrolled airspace of the Singapore FIR (page ENR 1.7-5).

2.4 APPROACH AND LANDING
2.4.1 A QNH altimeter setting shall be made available in the routine approach and landing instructions.

2.4.2 A QFE altimeter setting will be made available on request but reports to ATC are to be made in altitude.

2.4.3 Vertical displacement of aircraft during approach is effected by reference to flight level until reaching the transition
 level below which vertical displacement is controlled by reference to altitude.

2.5 MISSED APPROACH
2.5.1 The relevant portions of paragraphs 2.1, 2.2, 2.3 and 2.4 shall be applied in case of a missed approach.

3 PROCEDURES APPLICABLE TO OPERATORS AND PILOTS

3.1 Flight Planning
3.1.1 The level(s) at which a flight is to be conducted shall be specified in a flight plan;

 a. In terms of flight level(s) if the flight is to be conducted at or above the transition level, and



AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.7-3
 15 AUG 2019

 b. In terms of altitude(s) if the flight is to be conducted in the vicinity of an aerodrome and at or below the
 transition altitude.


 Note: 1:
 Short flights in the vicinity of an aerodrome may often be conducted only at altitude below the transition altitude.

 Note: 2:
 Flight levels are specified in a plan by number, and not in terms of feet as is the case with altitudes.

4 TABLES OF CRUISING LEVELS

4.1 SEMI-CIRCULAR SYSTEM OF CRUISING LEVELS WITHIN THE SINGAPORE FIR
4.1.1 The pilot-in-command of an IFR flight at or above 3,000ft within controlled airspace and above FL250 in
 uncontrolled airspace shall select a level corresponding to the appropriate magnetic track as indicated in para
 4.2. The Quadrantal Height Rule as contained in para 4.4 will continue to be used for all flights below FL250 in
 uncontrolled airspace of the Singapore FIR.

4.1.2 FL250 in uncontrolled airspace will be held vacant to serve as a buffer.



© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.7-4 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

4.4 QUADRANTAL CRUISING LEVELS FOR FLIGHTS OPERATING IN UNCONTROLLED
 AIRSPACE WITHIN PARTS OF SINGAPORE FIR BETWEEN PANGKAL PINANG TMA,
 PONTIANAK TMA AND PEKAN BARU TMA BELOW FL250
4.4.1 The pilot-in-command of a VFR or IFR flight operating at or above 3,000ft and below FL250 between Pangkal
 Pinang TMA, Pontianak TMA and Pekan Baru TMA shall select a level corresponding to the appropriate magnetic
 track as indicated in the following Quadrantal Cruising Levels:

 QUADRANTAL CRUISING LEVELS
 000°to 089° 090° to 179° 180° to 269° 270° to 359°
 30 35 40 45
 50 55 60 65
 70 75 80 85
 90 95 100 105
 110 - - -
 130 135 140 145
 150 155 160 165
 170 175 180 185
 190 195 200 205
 210 215 220 225
 230 235 240 245

 Note: VFR flights within the Singapore FIR are permitted to operate only up to FL200.

4.4.2 If compliance with VFR cannot be maintained at a quadrantal cruising level, the aircraft shall be flown at another
 quadrantal level where it is possible to comply with VFR.

4.4.3 The pilot-in-command shall ensure that the cruising level selected for an IFR flight is not below the lowest safe
 flight level applicable for the route to be flown.
 Note: The provision of terrain clearance is not part of ATC service.

4.4.4 Except when taking-off or landing, or with the approval of the appropriate authority, aircraft shall be flown at
 least 1,000ft above the highest obstacle within 10km of the estimated position of the aircraft in flight.

4.5 TRANSIT PROCEDURES
4.5.1 The procedures to be followed by aircraft when transitting between areas where the Quadrantal System of
 cruising levels is in use and those where the Semi-Circular System is applicable, are indicated below.

4.5.2 Transition from the Quadrantal System to the Semi-Circular System

 TRACK FLOWN VFR FLIGHT IFR FLIGHT
 000-089 Climb to next ODD + 500ft level Maintain ODD level
 090-179 Maintain ODD + 500ft level Descend to next ODD level
 180-269 Climb to next EVEN + 500ft level Maintain EVEN level
 270-359 Maintain EVEN + 500ft level Descend to next EVEN level

4.5.3 Transition from the Semi-Circular System to the Quadrantal System

 TRACK FLOWN VFR FLIGHT IFR FLIGHT
 000-089 Descend to next ODD level Maintain ODD level
 090-179 Maintain ODD + 500ft level Climb to next ODD + 500ft level
 180-269 Descend to next EVEN level Maintain EVEN level
 270-359 Maintain EVEN + 500ft level Climb to next EVEN + 500ft level

 Note: The terms “ODD + 500ft” level and “EVEN + 500ft” level have been used to designate those series of
 levels where, below FL290, flight levels ending with 75, 95, 115, etc. and 65, 85, 105 etc respectively
 are prescribed.


4.6 CHANGING LEVELS
4.6.1 ATC may clear aircraft to change level at a specific time, place or rate. The pilot-in-command must acknowledge
 receipt of ATC instruction to a change of level and shall effect a change of level immediately unless a later time
 or place for the commencement is specified or is approved, as a result of a request by a pilot. The rate of change
 of level shall be the specific rate, or if no rate has been specified, a rate suitable for the type of aircraft.


AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.7-5
 15 AUG 2019

 Note: A pilot may request ATC approval for a different rate of change of level or a different time or place for
 commencing change of level.

4.6.2 When required, the pilot-in-command may be instructed to reach an assigned level by a specified time or position.
 The pilot-in-command shall advise ATC immediately if he is doubtful whether the assigned level can be reached
 as instructed.

4.6.3 A pilot-in-command shall report:

 a. At the time of leaving a level for a newly assigned level;
 b. When leaving or passing through such other levels as may be specified by ATC;
 c. On reaching an assigned level.

4.6.4 A pilot-in-command shall read back level clearances.

4.7 UNIDIRECTIONAL ATS ROUTES LEVEL ASSIGNMENTS - SINGAPORE/JAKARTA
 SECTOR
4.7.1 The following Level Assignments for aircraft operating in the Singapore/Jakarta sector on the unidirectional ATS
 Routes B470 and G579 will be adopted by Singapore and Jakarta ACCs.

4.7.2 Level Assignments
4.7.2.1 Jakarta ACC shall assign:

 a. All even flight levels plus 500ft above the minimum enroute level up to and including FL185.
 b. Above FL185, starting at FL220 all even flight levels up to and including FL280.
 c. Above FL280, all flight levels at 1,000ft intervals starting at FL290 and up to FL410 (inclusive), except
 for flights beyond Singapore where only even flight levels shall be assigned.

4.7.2.2 Singapore ACC shall assign:

 a. All odd flight levels plus 500ft above the minimum enroute level up to and including FL195.
 b. Above FL195, starting at FL210 all odd flight levels up to and including FL290.
 c. Above FL290, all flight levels at 1,000ft intervals starting at FL290 and up to FL410 (inclusive), except
 for flights beyond Jakarta where only odd flight levels shall be assigned.

4.8 POSITION REPORTS
4.8.1 In so far as range permits, the pilot-in-command shall report position to the responsible ATC unit on the appropriate
 VHF RTF frequency. When outside VHF RTF range, the pilot-in-command shall report position on HF RTF.

4.8.2 The pilot-in-command shall report position as soon as possible after the aircraft has passed each designated
 reporting point or “on request” reporting point (when so required by ATC).

4.8.3 Where no designated or “on request” position report is required, the pilot-in-command shall report position hourly
 in latitude and longitude and shall report “operations normal” every 30 minutes in between.

 Note: Operating companies may request approval to make fixed rather than hourly reports.

4.8.4 When reporting their positions, pilots shall transmit the word “POSITION” either immediately before or after the
 callsign of their aircraft.

4.8.5 A position report shall comprise Section 1 or Sections 2 and 3, or the AIREP form of report:

 Section 1 (Position Information)

 1. aircraft identification
 2. position
 3. time
 4. flight level or altitude
 5. next position and time over
 6. ensuing significant point

 Section 2 (Operational Information)

 7. estimated time of arrival
 8. endurance




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.7-6 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

 Section 3 (Meteorological Information)

 9. air temperature
 10. wind direction
 11. wind speed
 12. turbulence
 13. aircraft icing
 14. humidity (if available)

4.8.6 Section 2 - Operational Information of an AIREP is not required for turbine powered aircraft operations.

4.8.7 Designated and on request reporting points for the various established routes are listed in section ENR 3. Position
 reports which require Section 3 (Meteorological information) are detailed in page GEN 3.5-6.

4.9 HOLDING
4.9.1 An aircraft required to hold en-route or over the destination holding point shall do so in accordance with the
 holding pattern specified for the radio aid in subsection ENR 3.6.

4.9.2 Where no specified holding pattern is established and en-route holding is required by ATC, the pilot-in- command
 shall hold in accordance with the standard holding pattern as follows:

 a. Follow the specified track inbound to the holding point;
 b. On passing the holding point, make a 180° rate one turn to the right;
 c. Maintain a parallel track outbound from the holding point for 1 min if at or below FL140 and 1½ min if
 above FL140;
 d. Make a 180° rate one turn to the right; and
 e. follow the specified track inbound.

 Note:

 1) NOTWITHSTANDING PARA 4.9 ABOVE, ATC may instruct an aircraft to execute a left hand turn
 and specify the direction in which the aircraft is to be held in relation to the reporting or holding point
 en-route.

 2) The pilot-in-command should adjust his holding pattern within the limits of the established holding
 area in order to leave the holding point as far as possible at the exact time specified.



4.10 FLIGHT IN CONTROLLED AIRSPACES
4.10.1 Within controlled airspaces ATC separate IFR flights:

 a. Vertically: by assigning them different levels or altitude;
 b. Longitudinally: by instructing two aircrafts to maintain a minimum time interval between them; and
 c. Laterally: by providing different flight paths;
 d. By use of radar to ensure a minimum horizontal separation.

4.10.2 Standard separation in accordance with PANS-ATM DOC 4444-ATM/501 shall be provided to all flights operating
 in controlled airspace, except when:

 a. Positive identification by radar of an aircraft’s position is available to the appropriate ATC unit;

 b. Within the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex and Airways at/below FL150 during daylight hours, reports
 received from opposite direction aircraft indicate they have definitely passed each other;

 c. In the vicinity of an aerodrome:

 i. two or more aircraft are continuously visible to an aerodrome controller who can take positive action
 to ensure separation; or

 ii. all aircraft are continuously visible to one another and the pilots concerned indicate that they can
 maintain their own separation.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.7-7
 15 AUG 2019


4.10.3 Within the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex, standard separation is provided between all flights irrespective
 of whether they are operating on a VFR or IFR Flight Plan. All operations are required to obtain an Air Traffic
 Control Clearance.

 Note: See Area Charts ENR 3.6-7 and ENR 3.6-9.

4.10.4 When operating in VMC, on an IFR flight plan, the pilot-in-command shall keep a lookout for other aircraft to
 avoid collision hazard.

4.10.5 All aircraft operating under IFR or VFR in controlled airspaces shall be equipped with appropriate two- way radio
 communication, suitable instruments and radio navigation apparatus appropriate to the route to be flown and
 the pilot shall hold an instrument rating.

4.11 TRANSFER OF COMMUNICATIONS
4.11.1 The transfer of air/ground communications contact to an adjoining Area Control Centre in adjacent FIRs is
 normally made at the agreed transfer point or at the common FIR boundary.

4.12 ALERTING SERVICE
4.12.1 Alerting service is available for all notified aircraft movements in Singapore FIR.

4.12.2 The pilot-in-command of an aircraft landing at an unattended landing ground shall notify arrival to ATC by the
 most expeditious means available.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-1
 10 OCT 2019


 ENR 1.8 REGIONAL SUPPLEMENTARY PROCEDURES

1 RVSM PROCEDURES IN THE SINGAPORE FIR

1.1 IMPLEMENTATION OF REVISED FLOS (FLIGHT LEVEL ORIENTATION SCHEME)
 AND FLAS (FLIGHT LEVEL ALLOCATION SCHEME) IN THE WESTERN
 PACIFIC/SOUTH CHINA SEA AREA
1.1.1 In order to minimise flight level transition requirements for flights entering and leaving the Western Pacific / South
 China Sea area, the following flight level arrangements will be implemented simultaneously and permanently:

 a. a single alternate FLOS (i.e. ‘east odd flight levels, west even flight levels’) in compliance with the Table
 “RVSM-FEET” of Appendix 3 of ICAO Annex 2 and in accordance with the FLOS in surrounding areas;

 b. special high capacity arrangements for six unidirectional parallel routes (L642, M771, N892, L625, N884
 and M767) that involve managed use of odd and even flight levels in the same direction of flight; and

 c. an associated FLAS agreed between affected ACCs to facilitate ATC ‘No-PDC’ operations.


1.1.2 To harmonise with RVSM operations within Jakarta FIR, RVSM operations within the Singapore FIR shall be
 conducted between FL290 and FL410 (inclusive) in the following areas:

 ATS Routes Flight Level Assignment
 A464 (S) Southbound FL290, FL310, FL330, FL350, FL370, FL390, FL410
 A576 (S) Southbound FL290, FL310, FL330, FL350, FL370, FL390, FL410
 B470 FL290, FL300, FL310, FL320, FL330, FL340, FL350, FL360, FL370, FL380,
 FL390, FL400 and FL410 except for flights beyond Jakarta where only odd levels
 shall be assigned.
 B469 (S) Southbound FL290, FL310, FL330, FL350, FL370, FL390 and FL410
 N875/G464 (S) Southbound FL290, FL330, FL370 and FL410
 W36 (S) Southbound FL290, FL330, FL370 and FL410
 L644 (S) Southbound FL290, FL330, FL370 and FL410
 L762(W) Westbound FL300, FL320, FL340, FL360, FL380 and FL400
 R469 (W) Westbound FL300, FL320, FL340, FL360, FL380 and FL400
 W22 (W) Westbound FL300, FL320, FL340, FL360, FL380 and FL400


1.1.3 Non-RVSM approved aircraft shall fly below RVSM airspace unless prior approval has been obtained from the
 ACC concerned for such aircraft to operate in RVSM airspace. In the assignment of cruising level in RVSM
 airspace, RVSM-approved aircraft shall be given priority over non-RVSM approved aircraft.

1.1.4 When an RVSM-approved aircraft reports that it is no longer RVSM-compliant before the transfer of control
 point, the transferring ACC shall immediately notify the receiving ACC of this fact and provide conventional
 vertical separation of 2,000ft between this aircraft and the other aircraft.

1.2 RVSM OPERATIONAL APPROVAL AND MONITORING
1.2.1 Operators must obtain airworthiness and operational approval from the State of Registry or State of the Operator,
 as appropriate, to conduct RVSM operations. The requirement for operators to qualify for RVSM operational
 approval can be found at:

 http://www.caas.gov.sg/caasWeb2010/export/sites/caas/en/Regulations/Safety/Advisory_Circulars/
 AC-AOC_series-AIR_Operators/AC_AOC-15_0.pdf

 Each aircraft operating in RVSM airspace shall hold a valid RVSM approval. RVSM approval issued for one
 region will always be valid for RVSM operations in another region provided specific restrictions have not been
 imposed on the operator by the State of the Operator or State of Registry. The Monitoring Agency for Asia
 Region (MAAR) monitors operator compliance with State approvals requirements by performing periodic scrutiny
 checks using Traffic Sample Data and the RVSM approvals record (http://www.aerothai.co.th/maar/approvals.php)




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2019
ENR 1.8-2 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

1.2.2 Operators are required to participate in the RVSM aircraft monitoring program. This is an essential element of
 the RVSM implementation program in that it confirms that the aircraft altitude-keeping performance standard
 is being met. Monitoring accomplished for other regions can be used to fulfil the monitoring requirements for the
 Asia/Pacific Region. The information on height-keeping performance monitoring options can be found at:

 http://www.aerothai.co.th/maar/monitoringsystems.php

1.3 ACAS II AND TRANSPONDER EQUIPAGE
1.3.1 Aircraft operating in RVSM airspace shall be equipped with an airborne collision avoidance system (ACAS II)
 and to operate the ACAS system in accordance with the relevant provisions of ICAO Annex 10, Volume IV,
 Chapter 4.

1.4 IN-FLIGHT PROCEDURES WITHIN RVSM AIRSPACE
1.4.1 Before entering RVSM airspace, the pilot should review the status of required equipment. The following equipment
 should be operating normally:

 a. two primary altimetry systems;
 b. one automatic altitude-keeping device; and
 c. one altitude-alerting device.

1.4.2 The pilot must notify ATC whenever the aircraft:

 a. is no longer RVSM compliant due to equipment failure; or
 b. experiences loss of redundancy of altimetry systems; or
 c. encounters turbulence that affects the capability to maintain flight level.

 See pages ENR 1.8-8 to ENR 1.8-11 or Appendix 5 of FAA IG 91-RVSM for pilot and controller actions in
 contingency scenarios.

1.4.3 During cleared transition between levels, the aircraft should not overshoot or undershoot the assigned FL by
 more than 150ft (45m).

1.4.4 Except in an ADS or radar environment, pilots shall report reaching any altitude assigned within RVSM airspace.

1.4.5 Paragraphs 1.5, 1.6, 1.7 and 1.8 below contain procedures for in-flight contingencies that have been updated
 for RVSM operations. The contingency procedures in paragraphs 1.5 and 1.6 and the off-set procedures in
 paragraph 1.8 should be applied in Oceanic operations. The weather deviation procedures in paragraph 1.7
 may be applied in all airspace in the region.

1.5 SPECIAL PROCEDURES FOR IN-FLIGHT CONTINGENCIES IN OCEANIC AIRSPACE
 IN THE SINGAPORE FIR
1.5.1 The following general procedures apply to both subsonic and supersonic aircraft and are intended as guidance
 only. Although all possible contingencies cannot be covered, they provide for cases of inability to maintain
 assigned level due to:

 a. weather;
 b. aircraft performance;
 c. pressurisation failure; and
 d. problems associated with high-level supersonic flight.

1.5.2 The procedures are applicable primarily when rapid descent and/or turn-back or diversion to an alternate airport
 is required. The pilot’s judgement shall determine the sequence of actions to be taken, taking into account
 specific circumstances.

1.5.3 If an aircraft is unable to continue flight in accordance with its air traffic control clearance, a revised clearance
 shall, whenever possible, be obtained prior to initiating any action, using a distress or urgency signal as
 appropriate.

1.5.4 If prior clearance cannot be obtained, an ATC clearance shall be obtained at the earliest possible time and, until
 a revised clearance is received, the pilot shall:

 a. if possible, deviate away from an organised track or route system;
 b. establish communications with and alert nearby aircraft by broadcasting, at suitable intervals: flight
 identification, flight level, aircraft position (including the ATS route designator or the track code) and
 intentions on the frequency in use, as well as on frequency 121.5MHz (or, as a back-up, the VHF inter-pilot
 air-to-air frequency 123.45MHz);
 c. watch for conflicting traffic both visually and by reference to ACAS (if equipped); and
 d. turn on all aircraft exterior lights (commensurate with appropriate operating limitations).

AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-3
 15 AUG 2019

1.6 IN-FLIGHT CONTINGENCY PROCEDURES FOR SUBSONIC AIRCRAFT REQUIRING
 RAPID DESCENT, TURN-BACK OR DIVERSION IN OCEANIC AIRSPACE IN THE
 SINGAPORE FIR
 Initial action

1.6.1 If unable to comply with the provisions of 1.5.3 to obtain a revised ATC clearance, the aircraft should leave its
 assigned route or track by turning 45 degrees right or left whenever this is possible. The direction of the turn
 should be determined by the position of the aircraft relative to any organised route or track system (for example,
 whether the aircraft is outside, at the edge of, or within the system). Other factors to consider are terrain clearance
 and the levels allocated to adjacent routes or tracks.

 Subsequent action

1.6.2 An aircraft able to maintain its assigned level should acquire and maintain in either direction a track laterally
 separated by 15NM from its assigned route or track and once established on the offset track, climb or descend
 500ft (150m).

1.6.3 An aircraft NOT able to maintain its assigned level should, whenever possible, minimise its rate of descent while
 turning to acquire and maintain in either direction a track laterally separated by 15NM from its assigned route
 or track. For subsequent level flight, a level should be selected which differs by 500ft (150m) from those normally
 used.

1.6.4 Before commencing a diversion across the flow of adjacent traffic, the aircraft should, while maintaining the
 15NM offset, expedite climb above or descend below levels where the majority of aircraft operate (e.g. to a level
 above FL400 or below FL290) and then maintain a level which differs by 500ft (150m) from those normally used.
 However, if the pilot is unable or unwilling to carry out a major climb or descent, the aircraft should be flown at
 a level 500ft above or below levels normally used until a new ATC clearance is obtained.

1.6.5 If these contingency procedures are employed by a twin-engine aircraft as a result of an engine shutdown or a
 failure of an ETOPS critical system, the pilot should advise ATC as soon as practicable of the situation, reminding
 ATC of the type of aircraft involved and requesting expeditious handling.

1.7 WEATHER DEVIATION PROCEDURES IN THE SINGAPORE FIR
 General procedures

1.7.1 The following procedures are intended to provide guidance. All possible circumstances cannot be covered. The
 pilot’s judgement shall ultimately determine the sequence of actions taken and ATC shall render all possible
 assistance.

1.7.2 If the aircraft is required to deviate from track to avoid weather and prior clearance cannot be obtained, an air
 traffic control clearance shall be obtained at the earliest possible time. In the meantime, the aircraft shall follow
 the procedures detailed in paragraph 1.7.9.

1.7.3 The pilot shall advise ATC when weather deviation is no longer required, or when a weather deviation has been
 completed and the aircraft has returned to the centreline of its cleared route.

1.7.4 When the pilot initiates communications with ATC, rapid response may be obtained by stating “WEATHER
 DEVIATION REQUIRED” to indicate that priority is desired on the frequency and for ATC response.

1.7.5 The pilot still retains the option of initiating the communications using the urgency call “PAN PAN” to alert all
 listening parties to a special handling condition, which may receive ATC priority for issuance of a clearance or
 assistance.

1.7.6 When controller-pilot communications are established, the pilot shall notify ATC and request clearance to deviate
 from track, advising, when possible, the extent of the deviation expected. ATC will take one of the following
 actions:

 a. if there is no conflicting traffic in the horizontal dimension, ATC will issue clearance to deviate from track;
 or

 b. if there is conflicting traffic in the horizontal dimension, ATC will separate aircraft by establishing vertical
 separation or, if unable to establish vertical separation, ATC shall:

 i. advise the pilot unable to issue clearance for requested deviation
 ii. advise pilot of conflicting traffic
 iii. request pilot’s intentions




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-4 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

 SAMPLE PHRASEOLOGY:

 “Unable (requested deviation), traffic is (callsign, position, altitude, direction), advise intentions.”


1.7.7 The pilot will take the following actions:

 a. advise ATC of intentions by the most expeditious means available,
 b. comply with air traffic control clearance issued, or
 c. execute the procedures detailed in 1.7.9 below, (ATC will issue essential traffic information to all affected
 aircraft.)
 d. if necessary, establish voice communications with ATC to expedite dialogue on the situation.

 Actions to be taken if a revised air traffic control clearance cannot be obtained

1.7.8 The pilot shall take the actions listed below under the provision that the pilot may deviate from rules of the air
 (e.g. the requirement to operate on route or track centreline unless otherwise directed by ATC), when it is
 absolutely necessary in the interests of safety to do so.

1.7.9 If a revised air traffic control clearance cannot be obtained and deviation from track is required to avoid weather,
 the pilot shall take the following actions:

 a. if possible, deviate away from an organised track or route system;

 b. establish communications with and alert nearby aircraft by broadcasting, at suitable intervals: flight
 identification, flight level, aircraft position (including the ATS route designator or the track code) and
 intentions (including the magnitude of the deviation expected) on the frequency in use, as well as on
 frequency 121.5MHz (or, as a back-up, the VHF inter-pilot air-to-air frequency 123.45MHz).

 c. watch for conflicting traffic both visually and by reference to ACAS (if equipped);

 d. turn on all aircraft exterior lights (commensurate with appropriate operating limitations);

 e. for deviations of less than 10NM, aircraft should remain at the level assigned by ATC;

 f. for deviations of greater than 10NM, when the aircraft is approximately 10NM from track, initiate a level
 change based on the following criteria:

 Route centreline track Deviations greater than 10NM Level change
 EAST LEFT DESCEND 300ft
 000-179 magnetic RIGHT CLIMB 300ft
 WEST LEFT CLIMB 300ft
 180-359 magnetic RIGHT DESCEND 300ft

 Note: Items b) and c) call for the pilot to broadcast aircraft position and pilot’s intentions, identify conflicting
 traffic and communicate air-to-air with nearby aircraft.

 If the pilot determines that there is another aircraft at or near the same FL with which his aircraft might
 conflict, then the pilot is expected to adjust the path of the aircraft, as necessary, to avoid conflict.

 g. if contact was not established prior to deviating, continue to attempt to contact ATC to obtain a clearance.
 If contact was established, continue to keep ATC advised of intentions and obtain essential traffic
 information.

 h. when returning to track, be at its assigned flight level when the aircraft is within approximately 10NM of
 centreline.


1.8 PROCEDURES TO MITIGATE WAKE TURBULENCE ENCOUNTERS AND DISTRACTING
 AIRCRAFT SYSTEM ALERTS IN THE OCEANIC AIRSPACE OF SINGAPORE FIR
1.8.1 The following special procedures are applicable to mitigate wake turbulence or distracting aircraft system alerts
 [e.g. ACAS, Ground Proximity Warning System (GPWS)] in Asia and Pacific airspace where RVSM is applied:

 NOTE: In the contingency circumstances below, ATC will not issue clearances for lateral offsets and will not
 normally respond to actions taken by the pilots.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-5
 15 AUG 2019

1.8.2 An aircraft that encounters wake vortex turbulence or experiences distracting aircraft system alerts shall notify
 ATC and request a flight level, track or speed change to avoid the condition. However, in situations where such
 a change is not possible or practicable, the pilot may initiate the following temporary lateral offset procedure
 with the intention of returning to centreline as soon as practicable:

 a. the pilot should establish contact with other aircraft, if possible, on the appropriate VHF inter-pilot air-to-air
 frequency 123.45MHz, and

 b. one (or both) aircraft may initiate lateral offset(s) not to exceed 2NM from the assigned track, provided
 that:

 i. as soon as practicable to do so, the offsetting aircraft notify ATC that temporary lateral offset action
 has been taken and specify the reason for doing so (ATC will not normally respond); and

 ii. the offsetting aircraft notify ATC when re-established on assigned route(s) or track(s) (ATC will not
 normally respond).



1.9 FLIGHT PLANNING REQUIREMENTS
1.9.1 Unless special arrangement is made as detailed below, RVSM approval is required for aircraft to operate within
 designated RVSM airspace. The operator must determine that the appropriate State authority has approved
 the aircraft and will meet the RVSM requirements for the filed route of flight and any planned alternate routes.
 The letter “W” shall be inserted in item 10 (Equipment) of the ICAO standard flight plan to indicate that the
 aircraft is RVSM approved aircraft.

1.10 PROCEDURES FOR OPERATION OF NON-RVSM COMPLIANT AIRCRAFT IN RVSM
 AIRSPACE
1.10.1 It should be noted that RVSM approved aircraft will be given priority for level allocation over non- RVSM approved
 aircraft.

1.10.2 The vertical separation minimum between non-RVSM aircraft operating in the RVSM stratum and all other
 aircraft is 2,000ft.

1.10.3 Non-RVSM compliant aircraft operating in RVSM airspace should use the phraseology as contained in page
 ENR 1.8-12.

1.10.4 Non-RVSM compliant aircraft may be cleared to climb to and operate above FL290 or descend to and operate
 below FL410 provided that they:

 a. do not climb or descend at less than the normal rate for the aircraft, and
 b. do not level off at an intermediate level while passing through the RVSM stratum.

1.10.5 Non-RVSM compliant aircraft may not flight plan between FL290 and FL410 inclusive within RVSM airspace.
 After special coordination as detailed in paragraph 1.10.6 below, the following non-RVSM aircraft may flight
 plan at RVSM flight levels in the RVSM stratum:

 a. is being initially delivered to the State of Registry or Operator (see paragraph 1.11 for additional details
 and information); or
 b. was formally RVSM approved but has experienced an equipment failure and is being flown to a maintenance
 facility for repair in order to meet RVSM requirements and/or obtain approval; or
 c. is transporting a spare engine mounted under the wing; or
 d. is being utilized for mercy or humanitarian purposes; or
 e. State aircraft (those aircraft used in military, custom and police services shall be deemed State aircraft).

1.10.6 The assignment of cruising level to non-RVSM compliant aircraft listed in paragraph 1.10.5 (a) to (e) shall be
 subject to an ATC clearance. Aircraft operators shall include “STS/CATEGORY (FERRY/ HUMANITARIAN/
 MILITARY/ CUSTOMS/POLICE)/NON-RVSM COMPLIANT” in field 18 of the ICAO flight plan.

1.10.7 Contact details for approval request are as follows:

 Watch Manager, Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre:
 TEL: (65) 65412668
 AFS: WSJCZRZX
 FAX: (65) 65457526

1.10.8 This approval process is intended exclusively for the purposes indicated above and not as a means to circumvent
 the normal RVSM approval process.


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-6 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

1.11 DELIVERY FLIGHTS FOR AIRCRAFT THAT ARE RVSM COMPLIANT ON DELIVERY
1.11.1 An aircraft that is RVSM compliant on delivery may operate in RVSM airspace provided that the crew is trained
 on RVSM policies and procedures applicable in the airspace and the responsible State issues the operator a
 letter of authorisation approving the operation. State notification to the APARMO should be in the form of a letter,
 e-mail or facsimile documenting the one-time flight. The planned date of the flight, flight identification, registration
 number and aircraft type/series should be included.

1.12 PROCEDURES FOR SUSPENSION OF RVSM
1.12.1 Air traffic services will consider suspending RVSM procedures within affected areas of the Singapore FIR when
 there are pilot reports of greater than moderate turbulence. Within areas where RVSM procedures are suspended,
 the vertical separation minimum between all aircraft will be 2,000ft.

1.13 GUIDANCE FOR PILOTS AND CONTROLLERS FOR ACTIONS IN THE EVENT OF
 AIRCRAFT SYSTEM MALFUNCTION OR TURBULENCE GREATER THAN MODERATE
1.13.1 See pages ENR 1.8-7 to ENR 1.8-10 for guidance in these circumstances.

1.14 PROCEDURES FOR AIR-GROUND COMMUNICATION FAILURE
1.14.1 The air-ground communication failure procedures specified in page ENR 1.6-3 in conjunction with ICAO
 PANS-ATM DOC 4444 should be applied.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-7
 29 MAR 2018




 CONTINGENCY SCENARIOS

The following paragraphs summarize pilot actions to mitigate the potential for conflict with other aircraft in certain contingency
situations. They should be reviewed in conjunction with the expanded contingency scenarios detailed below which contain
additional technical and operational details.

 Scenario 1 : The pilot is

a. unsure of the vertical position of the aircraft due to the loss or degradation of all primary altimetry systems, or

b. unsure of the capability to maintain cleared flight level (CFL) due to turbulence or loss of all automatic altitude control
 systems.


 The pilot should: ATC can be expected to:
Maintain CFL while evaluating the situation;

Watch for conflicting traffic both visually and by reference to
ACAS, if equipped;

If considered necessary, alert nearby aircraft by

a) Making maximum use of exterior lights;

b) Broadcasting position, FL, and intentions on 121.5MHz (as
a back-up, the VHF inter-pilot air-to-air frequency 123.45MHz
may be used).

Notify ATC of the situation and intented course of action. Obtain the pilot’s intentions and pass essential traffic
Possible courses of action include: information.

a) Maintaining the CFL and route provided that ATC can If the pilot intends to continue in RVSM airspace, assess traffic
provide lateral, longitudinal or conventional vertical separation. situation to determine if the aircraft can be accommodated
 through the provision of lateral, longitudinal, or conventional
 vertical separation, and if so, apply the appropriate minimum.

b) Requesting ATC clearance to climb above or descend below If the pilot requests clearance to exit RVSM airspace,
RVSM airspace if the aircraft cannot maintain CFL and ATC accommodate expeditiously, if possible.
cannot establish adequate separation from other aircraft.

c) Executing the contingency manoeuvre shown in paragraphs If adequate separation cannot be established and it is not
1.5 and 1.6 to offset from the assigned track and FL, if ATC possible to comply with the pilot’s request for clearance to exit
clearance cannot be obtained and the aircraft cannot maintain RVSM airspace, advise the pilot of essential traffic information,
CFL. notify other aircraft in the vicinity and continue to monitor the
 situation.

 Notify adjoining ATC facilities/sectors of the situation.


Scenario 2: There is a failure or loss of accuracy of one primary altimetry system (e.g. greater than 200ft difference between
primary altimeters).

 The pilot should:
Cross check standby altimeter, confirm the accuracy of a primary altimeter system and notify ATC of the loss of redundancy.
If unable to confirm primary altimeter system accuracy, follow pilot actions listed in the preceding scenario.




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2018
ENR 1.8-8 AIP Singapore
29 MAR 2018




 EXPANDED EQUIPMENT FAILURE AND TURBULENCE ENCOUNTER SCENARIOS

Operators may consider this material for use in training programs.

 Scenario 1: All automatic altitude control systems failed (e.g. Automatic Altitude Hold).

 The pilot should: ATC can be expected to:
Initially,
Maintain CFL

Evaluate the aircraft’s capability to maintain altitude through
manual control

Subsequently,
Watch for conflicting traffic both visually and by reference to
ACAS, if equipped.

If considered necessary, alert nearby aircraft by:

a) Making maximum use of exterior lights;

b) Broadcasting position, FL, and intentions on 121.5MHz (as
a back-up, the VHF inter-pilot air-to-air frequency 123.45MHz
may be used).

Notify ATC of the failure and intended course of action. Possible
courses of action include:

a) Maintaining the CFL and route, provided that the aircraft If the pilot intends to continue in RVSM airspace, assess traffic
can maintain level. situation to determine if the aircraft can be accommodated
 through the provision of lateral, longitudinal, or conventional
 vertical separation, and if so, apply the appropriate minimum.

b) Requesting ATC clearance to climb above or descend below If the pilot requests clearance to exit RVSM airspace,
RVSM airspace if the aircraft cannot maintain CFL and ATC accommodate expeditiously, if possible.
cannot establish lateral, longitudinal or conventional vertical
separation.

c) Executing the contingency manoeuvre shown in paragraphs If adequate separation cannot be established and it is not
1.5 and 1.6 to offset from the assigned track and FL, if ATC possible to comply with the pilot’s request for clearance to exit
clearance cannot be obtained and the aircraft cannot maintain RVSM airspace, advise the pilot of essential traffic information,
CFL. notify other aircraft in the vicinity and continue to monitor the
 situation.

 Notify adjoining ATC facilities/sectors of the situation


 Scenario 2: Loss of redundancy in primary altimetry systems

 The pilot should: ATC can be expected to:
If the remaining altimetry system is functioning normally, couple Acknowledge the situation and continue to monitor progress.
that system to the automatic altitude control system, notify ATC
of the loss of redundancy and maintain vigilance of altitude
keeping.




AIP AMDT 02/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-9
 29 MAR 2018




Scenario 3: All primary altimetry systems are considered unreliable or failed.

 The pilot should: ATC can be expected to:
Maintain CFL by reference to the standby altimeter (if the
aircraft is so equipped).

Alert nearby aircraft by:

a) Making maximum use of exterior lights;

b) Broadcasting position, FL, and intentions on 121.5MHz (as
a back-up, the VHF inter-pilot air-to-air frequency 123.45MHz
may be used).

Consider declaring an emergency. Notify ATC of the failure Obtain pilot’s intentions and pass essential traffic information.
and intended course of action.

Possible courses of action include:

a) Maintaining CFL and route provided that ATC can provide If the pilot intends to continue in RVSM airspace, assess traffic
lateral, longitudinal or conventional vertical separation. situation to determine if the aircraft can be accommodated
 through the provision of lateral, longitudinal, or conventional
 vertical separation, and if so, apply the appropriate minimum.

b) Requesting ATC clearance to climb above or descend below If the pilot requests clearance to exit RVSM airspace,
RVSM airspace if ATC cannot establish adequate separation accommodate expeditiously, if possible.
from other aircraft.

c) Executing the contingency manoeuvre shown in paragraphs If adequate separation cannot be established and it is not
1.5 and 1.6 to offset from the assigned track and FL, if ATC possible to comply with the pilot’s request for clearance to exit
clearance cannot be obtained. RVSM airspace, advise the pilot of essential traffic information,
 notify other aircraft in the vicinity and continue to monitor the
 situation.

 Notify adjoining ATC facilities/sectors of the situation.




Scenario 4: The primary altimeters diverge by more than 200ft (60m).

 The pilot should:
Attempt to determine the defective system through established trouble-shooting procedures and/or comparing the primary
altimeter displace to the standby altimeter (as corrected by the correction cards, if required).

If the defective system can be determined, couple the functioning altimeter system to the altitude-keeping device.

If the defective system cannot be determined, follow the guidance in Scenario 3 for failure or unreliable altimeter indications
of all primary altimeters.




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2018
ENR 1.8-10 AIP Singapore
29 MAR 2018




Scenario 5: Turbulence (greater than moderate) which the pilot believes will impact the aircraft’s capability to maintain flight
level.

 The pilot should: ATC can be expected to:
Watch for conflicting traffic both visually and by reference to
ACAS, if equipped.

If considered necessary, alert nearby aircraft by:

a) Making maximum use of exterior lights;

b) Broadcasting position, FL, and intentions on 121.5MHz (as
a back-up, the VHF inter-pilot air-to-air frequency 123.45MHz
may be used).

Notify ATC of intended course of action as soon as possible.

Possible courses of action include:

a) Maintaining CFL and route, provided ATC can provide Assess traffic situation to determine if the aircraft can be
lateral, longitudinal or conventional vertical separation. accommodated through the provision of lateral, longitudinal,
 or conventional vertical separation, and if so, apply the
 appropriate minimum.

b) Requesting flight level change, if necessary If unable to provide adequate separation, advise the pilot of
 essential traffic information and request pilot’s intentions.

c) Executing the contingency manoeuvre shown in paragraphs Notify other aircraft in the vicinity and monitor the situation.
1.5 and 1.6 to offset from the assigned track and FL, if ATC
clearance cannot be obtained and the aircraft cannot maintain
CFL.

 Notify adjoining ATC facilities/sectors of the situation.




AIP AMDT 02/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-11
 29 MAR 2018




 CONTROLLER / PILOT PHRASEOLOGY

 Phrases Purpose
(callsign) CONFIRM RVSM APPROVED Used by the controller to ascertain the RVSM approval status
 of an aircraft.

NEGATIVE RVSM Used by the pilot to report non-RVSM approval status:

 a) On the initial call on any frequency within the RVSM airspace
 (controllers shall provide a readback with this same phrase);
 and

 b) In all requests for flight level changes pertaining to flight
 levels within the RVSM airspace; and

 c) In all readback of flight level clearances pertaining to flight
 levels within the RVSM airspace.

 Additionally, except for State aircraft, pilots shall include this
 RTF phrase to read back flight level clearances involving the
 vertical transit through FL290 or FL410.

AFFIRM RVSM Used by the pilot to report RVSM approval status.

NEGATIVE RVSM STATE AIRCRAFT Used by the pilot of a non-RVSM approved State aircraft to
 report non-RVSM approval status in response to the RTF
 phrase (callsign) CONFIRM RVSM APPROVED.

(callsign) UNABLE CLEARANCE INTO RVSM AIRSPACE, Used to deny ATC clearance into the RVSM airspace.
MAINTAIN [or DESCEND TO, or CLIMB TO] FLIGHT LEVEL
(number)

UNABLE RVSM DUE TURBULENCE Used by the pilot to report when severe turbulence affects the
 aircraft’s capability to maintain the height- keeping
 requirements for RVSM.

UNABLE RVSM DUE EQUIPMENT Used by the pilot to report that the aircraft’s equipment has
 degraded below the MASPS (Minimum Aircraft Systems
 Performance Specification) required for flight within the RVSM
 airspace.

READY TO RESUME RVSM Used by the pilot to report the ability to resume operations
 within the RVSM airspace after an equipment or
 weather-related contingency.

REPORT ABLE TO RESUME RVSM Used by the controller to confirm that an aircraft has regained
 its RVSM approval status or to confirm that the pilot is ready
 to resume RVSM operations.



 indicates a pilot transmission




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2018
ENR 1.8-12 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

2 MACH NUMBER TECHNIQUE (MNT) AND AREA NAVIGATION (RNAV)

2.1 INTRODUCTION
2.1.1 RNAV is a method which permits aircraft navigation along any desired flight path within the coverage of the
 associated navigation aids, or within the limits of the capability of self-contained aids, or a combination of these
 methods. RNAV equipment is considered to be that equipment which operates by automatically determining
 aircraft position from one, or a combination of the following sensors with the means to establish and follow a
 desired path: VOR/DME, DME/DME, INS, LORAN C, GNSS.

2.1.2 Only aircraft equipped with RNAV systems would be able to operate on the RNAV routes in the revised South
 China Sea ATS route structure which forms part of the Singapore FIR. Aircraft that are not RNAV compliant will
 only be cleared to operate on non-RNAV routes.

2.1.3 The requirements for conduct of RNAV operations are stated in ICAO Doc 9613 (Manual on Required Navigation
 Performance) and FAA AC 90-45 (Approval of Area Navigation Systems for use in the US National Airspace
 System).

2.1.4 Minimum longitudinal separation of 10 minutes between RNAV equipped aircraft based on Mach Number
 Technique is applied on ATS routes A464, A576, B470, G334, L625, L642, L644, L649, L762, M646, M751,
 M753, M758, M761, M767, M768, M771, M772, M774, N875, N884, N891 and N892 in accordance with DOC
 7030/4. MNPS criteria is not required. If item 10 of the flight plan does not include any of the following equipment
 designators “G”, “I” or “R”, operators shall insert “NAV/NON-RNAV” in item 18 of the flight plan.

2.1.5 Operators of aircraft to which the Mach Number Technique and RNAV procedures will be applied must ensure
 that the equipment carried on their aircraft have been calibrated in accordance with the applicable airworthiness
 practices.

2.1.6 An 80NM RNAV distance-based longitudinal separation minima, with Mach Number Technique being applied,
 is permanently implemented on ATS routes within the oceanic portion of the Singapore FIR.

2.2 MACH NUMBER IN A FLIGHT PLAN
2.2.1 Aircraft are required to include their true Mach Number in item 15 of the ICAO flight plan as follows:

 a. True airspeed and level preceding the entry point.
 b. True Mach Number and level at entry point.

 Example: Item 15 of a flight plan for a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Kota Kinabalu:
 0460F330 M758 VPK/M072F330 M758

2.2.2 Westbound departure flights from Singapore Changi Airport proceeding beyond Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand
 shall include Mach Number in item 18 of the flight plan.

2.3 ATC CLEARANCE
2.3.1 The ATC clearance shall include the filed Mach Number which is to be maintained, whether climbing, descending
 or on level flight.

 Example: An ATC clearance for a flight from Kuala Lumpur to Kuching, issued by Lumpur ATC to aircraft:

 MAS 518 CLEARED TO KUCHING VIA AIRWAY MIKE 761, MAINTAIN FL290, AT VPK MAINTAIN SPEED
 OF MACH POINT SEVEN TWO TILL AGOBA. SSR CODE A2215.

2.4 MAINTENANCE/CHANGE OF MACH NUMBER
2.4.1 Aircraft will be cleared to maintain their Mach numbers from the point of entry to the exit point. Pilots shall adhere
 strictly to the last assigned Mach number and notify ATC of any variation to the cleared (filed) Mach number.
 Application of longitudinal separation between aircraft when the Mach Number Technique is used is based on
 the assumption that the assigned Mach number will be maintained at all times. In the event that for operational
 reasons it is not feasible to do so, the pilot must inform ATC at the time initial clearance or when subsequent
 clearances are issued or requested.

2.4.2 The current true Mach number shall be included in routine position reports.

2.4.3 When reporting a change in Mach number, pilots should use the following phraseology:

 Example
 SINGAPORE RADAR, THIS IS MAS 524, SPEED NOW REDUCED (INCREASED) TO MACH POINT SEVEN
 ZERO



AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-13
 15 AUG 2019

2.5 LONGITUDINAL SEPARATION ON ATS ROUTES M758 AND M761

2.5.1 Longitudinal Separation Minimum
 The minimum longitudinal separation between RNAV equipped aircraft on ATS routes M758 and M761 is 10
 minutes based on MNT.

2.5.2 Separation of aircraft when the following aircraft is faster
 When the following aircraft is faster, for each 600m in distance between the entry and exit points of the area
 where the Mach Number Technique is used, 1 minute is added for each 0.01 difference in Mach number between
 the two aircraft concerned to compensate for the fact that the second aircraft is overtaking the first aircraft
 according to the table in Appendix A (see page ENR 1.8-16).

2.5.3 Separation of aircraft when the preceding aircraft is faster
 When the preceding aircraft is maintaining a greater Mach number than the following aircraft, the following
 separation shall be applied:

 a. 9 minutes if the preceding aircraft is Mach 0.02 faster than the following aircraft;
 b. 8 minutes if the preceding aircraft is Mach 0.03 faster than the following aircraft;
 c. 7 minutes if the preceding aircraft is Mach 0.04 faster than the following aircraft;
 d. 6 minutes if the preceding aircraft is Mach 0.05 faster than the following aircraft; and
 e. 5 minutes if the preceding aircraft is Mach 0.06 faster than the following aircraft.

2.6 LONGITUDINAL SEPARATION ON ATS ROUTES A464, A576, B470, G579, L625, L642,
 L644, L649, L762, M646, M751, M753, M767, M768, M771, M772, N875, N884, N891
 AND N892
2.6.1 Requirements

 The Mach Number Technique is applied on approved ATS routes between RNAV equipped aircraft.

2.6.2 Separation of aircraft with the same Mach number

 10 minutes longitudinal separation shall be applied between aircraft with the same Mach number.

2.6.3 Separation of aircraft when the following aircraft is faster

 The same buffer as stated in para 2.5.2 shall be applied.

2.6.4 Separation of aircraft when the preceding aircraft is faster

 The separation minima specified in para 2.5.3 shall apply.

2.6.5 15 minutes longitudinal separation minimum

 15 minutes longitudinal separation minimum shall be applied on these ATS routes between aircraft which cannot
 comply with RNAV procedures mentioned in para 2.6.1.

 Note: The longitudinal separation minimum for aircraft operating between Singapore and Jakarta airports on
 airways B470 and G579 is 10 minutes irrespective of whether they are RNAV-equipped.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-14 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019




 APPENDIX A


 Table


 APPLICATION OF MACH NUMBER TECHNIQUE WHEN THE FOLLOWING
 AIRCRAFT IS THE FASTER
 (BASED ON 10 MINUTES LONGITUDINAL SEPARATION)



 DISTANCE TO FLY AND SEPARATION (IN MINUTES)
 DIFFERENCE REQUIRED AT ENTRY POINT
 IN MACH 001-600 601-1200 1201-1800 1801-2400 2401-3000
 (NM) (NM) (NM) (NM) (NM)
 0.01 11 12 13 14 15
 0.02 12 14 16 18 20
 0.03 13 16 19 22 25
 0.04 14 18 22 26 30
 0.05 15 20 25 30 35
 0.06 16 22 28 34 40
 0.07 17 24 31 38 45
 0.08 18 26 34 42 50
 0.09 19 28 37 46 55
 0.10 20 30 40 50 60




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-15
 15 AUG 2019

3 RNP 10 NAVIGATION REQUIREMENTS

3.1 INTRODUCTION
3.1.1 ATC will apply 50NM lateral separation minima to aircraft which are approved for RNP 10 operations on the
 following segments of RNAV routes which fall within the Singapore FIR:

 L625 - BTN TOMAN and AKMON
 L642 - BTN ESPOB and MERSING
 L649 - BTN DAKIX and LAXOR
 M635 - BTN VTK and SURGA
 M767 - BTN TEGID and TOMAN
 M771 - BTN MERSING and DUDIS
 M774 - BTN OBDOS and KADAR
 N884 - BTN MERSING and LAXOR
 N892 - BTN MELAS and MERSING


3.1.2 A Performance-Based Longitudinal Separation Minima of 50NM may be applied between RNP 10 approved
 aircraft on RNAV routes L642, M635, M767, M771, M774 and N884 which either LOGON to CPDLC or are
 within VHF radio range as the primary means of communication. Such direct controller-pilot communication
 (DCPC) shall be maintained at all times when applying these separation minima

3.1.3 RCP240 and RSP180 performance specifications shall be required for the application of the Performance-
 Based Longitudinal Separation Minima in accordance with ICAO Doc 4444 PANS-ATM paragraph 5.4.2.9.2.

3.1.4 Otherwise, 80NM RNAV or 10 minutes (or less) Mach Number Technique (MNT) separation minima may be
 applied between aircraft in situation where DCPC could not be maintained or when RCP240 / RSP180
 performance requirement could not be complied.

3.1.5 ATC will apply 60NM lateral separation minima to aircraft which are approved for RNP 10 operations on RNAV
 routes:
 L644 - BTN DUDIS and KIKOR
 M772 - BTN ASISU and LAXOR


3.1.6 Pilots shall inform ATC of any deterioration or failure of the navigation systems below the navigation requirements
 for RNP 10. ATC shall then provide alternative separation and / or alternative routing.

3.1.7 Pilots of aircraft meeting RNP 10 navigation requirements must indicate /R at Item 10 of the ICAO Flight Plan.

3.2 OPERATIONS BY AIRCRAFT NOT MEETING RNP 10 REQUIREMENTS
3.2.1 An aircraft that is unable to meet the minimum navigational requirements for RNP 10 must file flight plan at
 FL280 or below. Operations above FL280 for these aircraft will be subject to ATC approval, in accordance with
 the provisions of paragraph 3.2.3.

3.2.2 Pilots of such aircraft wishing to operate on ATS routes specified in paragraph 3.1.1, at or above FL290, must
 indicate their level requirements at Item 18 of the ICAO Flight Plan as RMK/REQ FL (insert level). Approval to
 operate at the preferred level will be subject to ATC co-ordination and clearance. Flights that are not approved
 will be required to operate at FL280 or below or via alternative routes.

3.2.3 ATC units receiving a request for a non-RNP 10 approved aircraft to operate on ATS routes specified in paragraph
 3.1.1, at or above FL290, will co-ordinate with adjacent ATC units affected by the flight. In deciding whether or
 not to approve the flight, each ATC unit will take into consideration:

 a. traffic density;
 b. communications, including the non-availability of normal communications facilities;
 c. weather conditions en-route; and
 d. any other factors pertinent at the time.

3.3 SAFETY ASSESSMENT CRITERIA
3.3.1 The safety criteria associated with the introduction of the reduced lateral separation minima of 60NM will be in
 accordance with the requirements for RNP 10 navigation performance, i.e. aircraft navigation performance shall
 be such that the standard deviation of lateral track errors shall be less than 8.7km (4.7NM).




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-16 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

3.4 MONITORING OF AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION PERFORMANCE
3.4.1 Monitoring of aircraft navigation performance is a joint responsibility between operators, States of Registry or
 States of Operators (as applicable), regulatory authorities and the ATS providers. The detection and reporting
 of non-conformance with the navigation requirements against the following parameters will rely primarily on
 radar monitoring by ATC units:

 Lateral Deviations

 i. a deviation of 15NM or more from track centreline based on radar observations;

 Longitudinal Deviations

 i. where time separation is applied by ATC - when the reported separation based on ATC verified pilot
 estimates varies by 3 minutes or more from the expected separation at the reporting point; or
 ii. where a distance based standard is applied by ATC based on ADS, radar observation or RNAV distance
 reports - when the distance varies by 10NM or more from the expected distance.

3.4.2 ATC will advise the pilot-in-command when such deviations are observed and implement the required investigation
 procedures.

3.4.3 The ATC authority will investigate the causes of such deviations in conjunction with the aircraft operator and
 the State of Registry, or the State of the Operator, as applicable.

3.5 SEPARATION MINIMA
3.5.1 Lateral Separation Minima

 a. A lateral separation minima of 60NM will be applied between aircraft equipped in accordance with RNP
 10 navigation requirements, operating at FL290 or above, on ATS routes L644 and M772 (see paragraph
 3.1.2). 50NM lateral separation minima will be applied between aircraft which are approved for RNP10
 operations on ATS routes L625, L642, L649, M635, M767, M771, M774, N884 and N892 (see paragraph
 3.1.1).

 b. When an aircraft not meeting the RNP 10 navigation requirements is approved to operate at or above
 FL290, on the ATS routes shown in paragraphs 3.1.1 and 3.1.2, vertical separation shall be applied with
 aircraft operating on adjacent routes.


3.5.2 Longitudinal Separation

3.5.2.1 80NM RNAV or 10 minutes (or less) Mach Number Technique (MNT) separation minima may be applied between
 aircraft.

3.5.2.2 50NM longitudinal separation may be applied between RNP10 approved aircraft on ATS routes L642, L762,
 M635, M767, M771, M774 and N884 which either LOGON to CPDLC or are within VHF radio range.

3.6 OPERATORS’ PROCEDURES
3.6.1 The operator shall ensure in-flight procedures, crew manuals and training programmes are established in
 accordance with RNP 10 navigation requirements.

3.7 CONTINGENCY PROCEDURES (including WEATHER DEVIATION)
3.7.1 Contingency procedures, including weather deviation, shall be in accordance with the provisions contained in
 AIP Singapore pages ENR 1.8-2 to ENR 1.8-5.

4 NO-PRE-DEPARTURE CO-ORDINATION (NO PDC) PROCEDURES

4.1 INTRODUCTION
4.1.1 No Pre-Departure Co-ordination (No PDC) procedures apply to flights departing from airports within the Bali,
 Bangkok, Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Kota Kinabalu (including Brunei), Kuala Lumpur, Manila,
 Phnom Penh, Sanya, Singapore, Taipei and Vientiane FIRs operating on RNAV and ATS routes over the South
 China Sea.

4.1.2 No Pre-Departure Co-ordination (No PDC) levels and FPL route shall be omitted in content of ATC clearance
 for departures from Singapore Changi Airport on ATS routes A457, B466 and B469/M751 to destinations in
 Peninsular Malaysia and Thailand, as well as to Medan Polonia.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-17
 15 AUG 2019


4.2.3 Aircraft requesting FL280, FL300 and FL320 on ATS route L759, L515/M770, N571, N571/N877, P628 and
 P574 will be cleared to FL280. Succeeding aircraft on the same route will be cleared to FL280 with 10 minutes
 longitudinal separation provided there is no closing speed with the preceding aircraft. Additional longitudinal
 separation as appropriate shall be provided by ATC for the faster aircraft following a slower aircraft on the same
 route.



© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-18 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

4.2.4 For aircraft on N571 or N571/ N877, the first aircraft from Singapore or Kuala Lumpur to be over GUNIP can
 expect its requested flight level.

4.2.5 For aircraft on M770, the first aircraft from Singapore or Kuala Lumpur to be over the Kuala Lumpur / Bangkok
 FIR boundary can expect its requested flight level.

4.2.6 For aircraft on L759, the first aircraft from Singapore or Kuala Lumpur to be over the Kuala Lumpur / Bangkok
 FIR boundary can expect its requested flight level.

4.2.7 For aircraft on P628, the first aircraft from Singapore or Kuala Lumpur to be over VPL can expect its requested
 flight level.

4.2.8 For aircraft going beyond Medan on ATS route L762, FL280 and FL300 may be assigned. Succeeding aircraft
 on the same route will be cleared to FL280 or FL300 with 10 minutes longitudinal separation provided there is
 no closing speed with the preceding aircraft. Additional longitudinal separation as appropriate shall be provided
 by ATC for the faster aircraft following a slower aircraft on the same route.

5 STRATEGIC LATERAL OFFSET PROCEDURES

5.1 INTRODUCTION
5.1.1 Studies and safety analyses conducted by the ICAO Separation and Airspace Safety Panel (SASP) have shown
 that the application of a strategic lateral offset by aircraft from route centre line would result in an overall increase
 in safety of operations in remote and oceanic airspace.

5.2 STRATEGIC LATERAL OFFSETS IN EN-ROUTE AIRSPACE
5.2.1 Offsets may only be applied outside surveillance cover in en-route airspace within the Singapore FIR.

5.2.2 Offsets may only be applied by aircraft with automatic offset tracking capability.

5.2.3 The following requirements may apply to the use of the offset:

 a. The decision to apply a strategic lateral offset is the responsibility of the flight crew;

 b. The offset shall be established at a distance of one or two nautical miles to the right of the centre line
 relative to the direction of flight. Offsets are not to exceed two nautical miles right of centre line;

 c. The strategic lateral offset procedure has been designed to include offsets to mitigate the effects of wake
 turbulence of preceding aircraft. If wake turbulence needs to be avoided, offsets to the right of the centreline
 relative to the direction of flight in tenths of a nautical mile up to a maximum of 3.7km (2nm) shall be used.

 Pilots may contact other aircraft on the air to air frequency, 123.45MHz, as necessary, to coordinate
 the best wake turbulence offset option. As noted below, it is not necessary to notify air traffic control of
 approved offsets;

 d. In airspace where the use of lateral offsets has been authorized, ATC clearance is not required for this
 procedure and pilots are not required to inform ATC that an offset is being applied;

 e. Position reports are based on the current ATC clearance and not the exact coordinates of the offset
 position.

 An example of a position report made by a pilot when passing reporting point TODAM while being offset
 from track is:

 “Singapore Radio, Singapore 871, position TODAM 0930 Flight Level 380, estimate.....etc”.


6 CHANGI FLOW MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES

6.1 INTRODUCTION
6.1.1 The objectives of the procedures are to improve the efficiency of Singapore’s air traffic service by minimising
 radar vectoring as well as improving airspace capacity.

6.1.2 The procedures require the holding of Changi arrivals over established holding areas.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-19
 15 AUG 2019

6.2 ENTRY AND EXIT GATES
6.2.1 ‘Entry gates’ and ‘Exit gates’ are established to ensure segregation between arriving and departing aircraft
 operating at Singapore Changi Airport. These gates (waypoints) are incorporated in the RNAV SIDs/STARs
 which have been implemented to support the flow management procedures. The ‘entry’ and ‘exit’ gates are
 shown below:

 Entry Gate Coordinates
 BOBAG 010230N 1032954E
 PASPU 015915N 1040618E
 REMES 004342N 1035735E
 LAVAX 010950N 1042714E


6.3 ARRIVING AIRCRAFT TO SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
6.3.1 STANDARD INSTRUMENT ARRIVAL (STAR)
 IFR flight should expect a Standard Instrument Arrival (STAR). Changi arrivals via ATS route A464 shall flight
 plan ARAMA STAR route. LELIB STAR would be issued to pilots when traffic permits. ATC may also clear
 arrivals to join the LEBAR STAR when air traffic permits to facilitate arrivals joining downwind to the west of
 Singapore Changi Airport.

6.3.2 ENTRY GATE TIME
 To regulate the flow of traffic into the Approach airspace, ATC will issue, when necessary, a time restriction at
 an entry gate associated with the inbound route of the flight into Singapore Changi Airport.

6.3.3 DESCENT PROFILE
 Pilots shall plan their descent profile in accordance to the published STAR procedures.

6.3.4 SPEED CONTROL
 Speed control restrictions are incorporated into the STARs toenhance predictability and planning of air traffic
 in the Approach airspace. Pilots shall adhere to the speed control restrictions published in the STAR procedures
 unless otherwise advised. ATC may issue further speed adjustment during the different phases of the flight if
 traffic situation warrants.

6.4 APPROACH AIRSPACE HOLDING PROCEDURES
6.4.1 ENTRY PROCEDURE
 The entry into the holding patterns shall be in accordance with the three-sector entry procedure as prescribed
 in ICAO Doc 8168 - OPS/611 Edition 1993.

6.4.2 RATE OF TURN
 All turns are to be made at a bank angle of 25° or at a rate of 3° per second, whichever requires the lesser
 bank.

6.4.3 DESCENT PROCEDURE
 When instructed to join a holding pattern, pilots shall reach their assigned altitudes prior to arriving at the holding
 point. This will allow appropriate traffic sequencing and the reduction of step-descents in the holding pattern.

6.4.4 DETAILS OF APPROACH AIRSPACE HOLDING AREAS

 Holding Fix / ID / Inbound Direction MAX HLDG Time MNM-MAX Controlling Unit
 Co-ordinates Track °M of Turn Speed (IAS) (MIN) HLDG Level and Frequency
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
 NYLON 203° Left 220 knots 1 FL140 Singapore Approach
 013657N 1040624E 3,000ft 124.05MHz (PRI)
 132.15MHz (SRY)
 LAVAX 269° Left 220 knots 1 FL140 Singapore Approac
 010950N 1042714E 7,000ft 124.05MHz (PRI)
 132.15MHz (SRY)
 REMES 348° Right 220 knots 1 FL140 Singapore Approach
 004342N 1035735E 6,000ft 124.6MHz (PRI)
 132.15MHz (SRY)
 BOBAG 083° Right 220 knots 1 FL140 Singapore Approac
 010230N 1032954E 6,000ft 124.6MHz (PRI)
 132.15MHz (SRY)




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-20 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

6.4.5 ALTERNATE HOLDING AREAS
 In the event of inclement weather or capacity constraints rendering a specific holding area unusable, arrivals
 may be cleared to an alternate holding area for re-sequencing. To ensure smooth transition to alternate holding
 area, all arrivals bound for Singapore Changi Airport shall have their FMS programmed with all the four
 promulgated holding areas (paragraph 6.4.4)

6.5 EXPECTED TIME TO LEAVE HOLDING AREA
6.5.1 If arrival delay is processed by means of holding, pilots will be informed of the expected time to leave the
 respective holding area.

6.5.2 The expected time to leave is issued to serve as an early notification of the probable holding duration as well
 as for unforeseen circumstance such as radio failure (see page ENR 1.6-4). Subsequently, a specified time to
 leave the holding area will be issued to pilots to resume the flight according to the assigned RNAV STARs.

6.6 DEPARTING AIRCRAFT FROM SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
6.6.1 DEPARTURE SPEED CONTROL

 Departing aircraft shall not exceed IAS 230 knots below 4,000 feet AMSL or at the waypoints specified in the
 SID and not exceed IAS 250 knots below 10,000 feet AMSL. Pilots shall also comply with speed control restrictions
 according to published SIDs.

7 AUTOMATIC DEPENDENT SURVEILLANCE BROADCAST (ADS-B) OUT EXCLUSIVE
 AIRSPACE WITHIN PARTS OF THE SINGAPORE FIR

7.1 ADS-B BASED SURVEILLANCE AIRSPACE AND AIRCRAFT OPERATOR APPROVAL
7.1.1 Aircraft that operates on ATS routes L642, L644, M753, M771, M904, N891, N892, Q801, Q802, Q803 and
 T611 within airspace bounded by 073605N 1090045E, 040713N 1063543E, 041717N 1061247E (MABLI),
 044841N 1052247E (DOLOX), 045223N 1041442E (ENREP), 045000N 1034400E, thence north along the
 Singapore FIR boundary to 070000N 1080000E at or above FL290 must carry serviceable ADS-B transmitting
 equipment that has been certified as meeting:

 a. European Aviation Safety Agency - Certification Considerations for the Enhanced ATS in Non-Radar
 Areas using ADS-B Surveillance (ADS-B-NRA) Application via 1090MHz Extended Squitter (AMC 20-24),
 or
 b. European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) CS-ACNS (Subpart D - Surveillance - SUR), or
 c. Federal Aviation Administration - Advisory Circular No: 20-165A (or later versions) Airworthiness Approval
 of Automatic Dependent Surveillance - Broadcast (ADS-B) Out Systems, or
 d. The equipment configuration standards in Appendix XI of Civil Aviation Order 20.18 of the Civil Aviation
 Safety Authority of Australia.

7.1.2 Aircraft that does not comply with the requirements stipulated in paragraph 7.1.1 will not be accorded priority n
 the delineated airspace and flight level assignments would be subjected to air traffic conditions.

7.1.3 If an aircraft carries ADS-B transmitting equipment but does not comply with the requirements stipulated in
 paragraph 7.1.1, the aircraft must not fly in the delineated airspace unless the equipment is deactivated or set
 to transmit only a value of zero for the Navigation Uncertainty Category (NUCp) or Navigation Integrity Category
 (NIC).

7.1.4 Flights operating in the delineated airspace are to contact Singapore Radar on 134.35MHz (primary frequency)
 and 133.6MHz (secondary frequency).

7.2 FLIGHT PLANNING REQUIREMENTS
7.2.1 Aircraft operators complying with the requirements stipulated in paragraph 7.1.1 are to indicate the appropriate
 ADS-B designator in Item 10 of the ICAO flight plan:

 B1 ADS-B with dedicated 1090 MHz ADS-B “out” capability
 B2 ADS-B with dedicated 1090 MHz ADS-B “out” and “in” capability


7.2.2 Aircraft operators are to include the aircraft address (24 Bit Code) in hexadecimal format in Item 18 of the ICAO
 flight plan as per the following example:

 CODE/7C432B




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-21
 15 AUG 2019

7.2.3 Aircraft Identification (ACID) not exceeding 7 characters must be accurately indicated in Item 7 of the ICAO
 flight plan and replicated exactly when set in the aircraft avionics (for transmission as Flight ID) as follows:

 either

 a) The three-letter ICAO designator of the aircraft operator followed by the flight number (e.g. SIA123,
 MAS123, GIA123), when radiotelephony callsign consists of the associated ICAO telephony designator
 for the aircraft operator followed by the flight number (e.g. SINGAPORE 123, MALAYSIAN 123,
 INDONESIA 123).

 or

 b) The aircraft registration (e.g. N555AB, 9VABC) when the radiotelephony callsign consists of the aircraft
 registration.


 Important: ACID entered should not have any leading zeros unless it is part of the flight number as
 indicated in Item 7 of the ICAO flight plan. Hyphens, dashes or spaces are NOT to be used.

7.3 STATE AIRCRAFT
7.3.1 The conditions stipulated apply to STATE aircraft intending to operate within the delineated airspace.

7.4 INFLIGHT CONTINGENCIES
7.4.1 The pilot-in-command, upon awareness of an onboard ADS-B equipment failure, must inform ATC as soon as
 possible. ATC would then provide the necessary clearance to ensure separation with other flights operating in
 the delineated airspace.


8 AIR TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT CONTINGENCY PLAN

8.1 INTRODUCTION
8.1.1 The Air Traffic Management (ATM) Contingency Plan for Singapore FIR has been developed to fulfil the
 requirements of the ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices contained in Annex 11 and the Regional
 Supplementary Procedures (Doc 7030). In the event of partial or total disruption to the provision of Air Traffic
 Services (ATS) and / or the related support services in the Singapore Flight Information Region (FIR), the ATM
 Contingency Plan referred to in this section shall be activated to ensure the continued safety of air navigation
 of aircraft operating through the Singapore FIR.



© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-22 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

8.1.2 However, this contingency plan does not address arrangements for aircraft arriving and departing at Singapore
 airports. Aircraft departing or landing at Changi operating within 60NM from Singapore will be subjected to
 contingency procedures stated in ENR 1.8 paragraphs 1.5, 1.6, 1.7 and 1.8.

8.1.3 This ATM Contingency Plan provides:

 a. the contingency routes structure using existing published airways to enable transit through the Singapore
 FIR; and

 b. the associated Air Traffic Control (ATC) procedures to support the contingency plan.


8.1.4 As and where dictated by circumstances, aircraft planning to operate through Singapore FIR that have not yet
 departed may be temporarily suspended until a full assessment of the prevailing conditions has been determined
 and sufficient air traffic services restored.

8.1.5 Long-haul international aircraft and special operations (e.g. Search and Rescue (SAR), State aircraft, humanitarian
 flights, etc.) shall be afforded priority for levels at FL290 and above. Aircraft operators that operate domestic
 and regional flights should plan on the basis that FL290 and above may not be available.

8.1.6 Aircraft operators may elect to avoid the Singapore FIR by using ATS routes outside of Singapore FIR.

8.2 REDUCED ATS AND PROVISION OF FLIGHT INFORMATION SERVICES (FIS)
8.2.1 During the period where the contingency arrangements are in place, ATS including ATC services may not be
 available, a NOTAM will be issued providing the relevant information. The contingency plan provides for limited
 flight information and alerting services to be provided by Singapore ACC.

8.2.2 FIS and flight monitoring will be provided by the designated ATS authorities for the adjacent FIRs on the
 contingency routes that enter their respective FIRs.

8.2.3 During the early stages of a contingency event, ATC may be overloaded and tactical action may be taken to
 re-clear aircraft on alternative routes not included in this Plan.

8.2.4 In the event that ATS cannot be provided in the Singapore FIR, a NOTAM shall be issued indicating the following:

 a. time and date on the commencement of the contingency measures;
 b. airspace available for aircraft operations and airspace to be avoided;
 c. details of the facilities and services available or not available and any limits on ATS provision, including
 an expected date of restoration of services if available;
 d. information on the provisions made for alternative services;
 e. applicable ATS routes, AIP-published contingency routes, or tactically defined contingency routes;
 f. any special procedures to be complied by neighbouring ATS units not covered by this Plan;
 g. any special procedures to be complied by pilots; and
 h. any other details that aircraft operators may find useful with respect to the disruption and actions taken.

8.2.5 In the event that the Singapore International NOTAM Office is unable to issue the NOTAM, the alternate
 International NOTAM Office will take action to issue the contingency NOTAM upon notification by CAAS.

8.3 AIRCRAFT SEPARATION AND SPACING
8.3.1 Aircraft separation criteria, where applicable, will be in accordance with the ICAO Procedures for Air Navigation
 Services - Air Traffic Management (PANS-ATM, Doc 4444) and the Regional Supplementary Procedures (Doc
 7030).

8.3.2 The longitudinal separation / spacing will be 15 minutes. However, this may be reduced to 10 minutes in
 conjunction with application of the Mach number technique where authorized by CAAS and the agreed ATS
 coordination with the adjacent ATS authority.

8.3.3 The contingency route structure provides for lateral separation / spacing of 100NM. In cases where the lateral
 spacing of contingency routes is less than 100NM, a minimum vertical separation of 1000 feet will be applicable.

8.4 PRIORITY FOR FLIGHT LEVELS
8.4.1 Where possible, aircraft on long-haul international flights shall be afforded priority for cruising levels assigned
 in accordance with the flight level allocation scheme as specified in paragraph 8.10.

8.5 AIRSPACE CLASSIFICATIONS
8.5.1 Depending on the degree of disruption, airspace classifications may be changed to reflect the reduced level of
 services. Changes to airspace classification will be notified via NOTAM.


AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-23
 15 AUG 2019

8.6 AIRCRAFT POSITION REPORTING
8.6.1 Beyond VHF coverage, Automatic Dependent Surveillance - Contract (ADS-C) shall replace any requirement
 for voice position reporting to ATC for suitably equipped aircraft and in this case Controller-Pilot Data Link
 Communications (CPDLC) or HF will be the secondary means of communication. When CPDLC has been
 authorised for use by the relevant ATC authority, this will become the primary means of communication while
 HF will act as the secondary means of communication. If means of communication (i.e. ADS-C, CPDLC, HF,
 VHF) are not available, aircraft operators shall comply with the communications procedures as stated in paragraph
 8.9.

8.6.2 In the event that communication with the appropriate ATS authority could not be established, aircraft operators
 may apply Traffic Information Broadcast by Aircraft (TIBA) procedures in the Singapore FIR as outline in
 paragraph 8.11 on 121.5MHz.

8.7 EXCLUSIONS
8.7.1 VFR flights shall not operate in the Singapore FIR during contingency operations, except for State aircraft,
 Medevac flights, and any other aircraft as authorised by CAAS.

8.8 PILOT AND OPERATOR PROCEDURES

8.8.1 Filing of flight plans
8.8.1.1 Flight planning requirements detailed in AIP Singapore continue to apply during contingency operations, except
 where modified by the contingency ATS routes and flight level allocation scheme specified by ATC and / or in
 NOTAM.

8.8.1.2 Airspace users are expected to familiarize themselves with the Contingency Plan of the Singapore FIR and the
 activation times. For aircraft intending to operate in areas during periods when the Contingency Plan is activated,
 the operators shall plan the flight to conform to the requirements of Contingency Plan.

8.8.1.3 The flight planning requirements during contingency periods will be in accordance to ICAO Annex 2 Chapter 3
 and DOC 4444 Chapter 4 and Appendix 2. Additional information, will, however, be required, to indicate that
 the aircraft will operate in airspace where the Contingency Plan is active.

8.8.2 Overflight approval
8.8.2.1 Airspace users must obtain overflight approval from CAAS prior to operating aircraft through the Singapore FIR.
 During the period of activation of this Contingency Plan, the adjacent ATS authority will provide normal ATC
 clearances for aircraft to enter Singapore FIR. The adjacent ATS authority is not responsible for coordination
 or provision of overflight clearances for Singapore FIR. The airspace users must ensure any required overflight
 approval has been obtained.

8.8.3 Pilot operating procedures
8.8.3.1 Pilots will continue to make or broadcast routine position reports in line with normal ATC procedures.

8.8.3.2 Pilots of aircraft operating in the Singapore FIR during contingency operations shall comply with the following
 procedures:

 a. all aircraft proceeding along the ATS routes established in this Contingency Plan will comply with the
 instrument flight rules (IFR) and will be assigned a flight level in accordance with the flight level allocation
 scheme applicable to the route(s) being flown as specified in paragraph 8.10;
 b. aircraft are to flight plan using the Contingency Routes specified in paragraph 8.10, according to their
 airport of origin and destination;
 c. aircraft are to operate as close as possible to the centre line of the assigned contingency route;
 d. a continuous communications watch shall be maintained on the specified contingency frequency as
 specified in paragraph 8.10;
 e. aircraft position reports and other information as necessary shall be broadcast in accordance with TIBA
 procedures defined in paragraph 8.11;
 f. aircraft navigation and anti-collision lights shall be displayed;
 g. except in cases of emergency or for reasons of flight safety, pilots are to maintain the last assigned flight
 level, MACH number and SSR transponder code during their entire flight within Singapore FIR. If no
 transponder code has been assigned, aircraft shall squawk Code 2000.
 h. aircraft are to reach the flight level last assigned by the responsible ACC at least 10 minutes before entering
 the Singapore FIR or as otherwise instructed by the ATC unit acting in accordance with the Operational
 Contingency Arrangement;
 i. pilots are to contact the next adjacent ACC as soon as possible, and in any event not less than ten (10)
 minutes before the estimated time of arrival over the relevant exit point from the Singapore FIR;




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-24 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

 j. pilots are to strictly adhere to the ICAO Traffic Information Broadcasts by Aircraft (TIBA) procedures,
 reproduced in paragraph 8.11, on the specified VHF and HF frequencies listed in paragraph 8.10. When
 necessitated by emergency conditions or flight safety requirements, pilots are to transmit blind on these
 frequencies, their current circumstances and the commencement and completion of any climb and descent
 or deviation from the cleared contingency route;
 k. whenever emergencies and / or flight safety reasons make it impossible to maintain the flight level assigned
 for transit of Singapore FIR, pilots are to comply with the special procedures for in-flight contingencies
 set out in ENR 1.8 paragraph 1.5. If the deviation brings the aircraft out of Singapore FIR, pilots are to
 immediately inform the ACC unit responsible for that airspace. Pilots are to broadcast details of any level
 change including aircraft identification, aircraft position and route, vacated flight level, intended flight level;
 flight level passed and cruising flight level on 121.5MHz;
 l. pilots are to maintain own longitudinal separation of 15 minutes from preceding aircraft at the same cruising
 level. However, this may be reduced to 10 minutes in conjunction with application of the Mach number
 technique where authorized by CAAS and the agreed ATS coordination with the adjacent ATS authority;
 and
 m. not all operational circumstances can be addressed by this Contingency Plan and pilots are to maintain
 a high level of alertness when operating in the contingency airspace and take appropriate action to ensure
 safety of aircraft.

8.8.4 Interception of civil aircraft
8.8.4.1 Aircraft operators must be familiar with international intercept procedures contained in ICAO Annex 2 - Rules
 of the Air, paragraph 3.8 and Appendix 2, Sections 2 and 3.

8.8.4.2 Pilots are to comply with instructions given by the pilot of the intercepting aircraft. In such circumstances, the
 pilot of the aircraft being intercepted shall broadcast information on the situation.

8.8.4.3 If circumstances leading to the closure of the Singapore FIR where no contingency routes are available, aircraft
 will be required to keep clear of Singapore FIR. As much warning as possible will be provided by the appropriate
 ATS authorities in the event of the complete closure of airspace.

8.8.4.4 Pilots shall continuously guard the VHF emergency frequency 121.5MHz and shall operate their transponder
 at all times during flight, regardless of whether the aircraft is within or outside airspace where secondary
 surveillance radar (SSR) is used for ATS purposes. Transponder should be set on the last discrete code assigned
 by ATC or select Code 2000 if no code was assigned.

8.9 COMMUNICATION PROCEDURES

8.9.1 Degradation of Communication - Pilot Radio Procedures
8.9.1.1 When operating within the contingency airspace, pilots should use normal radio communication procedures
 where ATS services are available. Where limited or no ATS is available, communications shall be conducted
 in accordance with the procedures in this Plan or as otherwise notified by NOTAM.

8.9.1.2 If communications are lost unexpectedly on the normal ATS frequencies, pilots shall try the next applicable
 frequency, e.g. if en-route contact is lost, pilots shall try the next appropriate frequency (the next normal handover
 frequency). Pilots should also consider attempting to contact ATC on the last frequency where two-way
 communication had been established. In the absence of communication with ATC, the pilot shall continue to
 make routine position reports on the assigned frequency, and also broadcast positions in accordance with the
 TIBA procedures in paragraph 8.11.

8.9.2 Communication frequencies
8.9.2.1 A list of frequencies to be used for the contingency routes and the ATS units providing FIS and air-ground
 communication monitoring for the Singapore FIR is detailed in paragraph 8.10.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-25
 05 DEC 2019

8.10 CONTINGENCY ROUTES

8.10.1 Between Singapore and Manila FIR
8.10.1.1 The following table shows the Contingency Routes (CR) Structure, Flight Level Allocation Scheme (FLAS) and
 Transfer of Control and Communication (TOC) between Singapore and Manila FIR.

 Transfer of
 ATS
 CR Direction FLAS ACC Communication Remarks
 Route
 (TOC)
 At 075400N 1122000E,
 contact Manila ACC: Aircraft operators may
 N884
 - ADS/CPDLC: choose to avoid the
 (075400N FL310
CRS-3 East Manila ACC Logon RPHI Singapore FIR by using
 1122000E - FL350
 - HF: 5655 / 8942 alternate ATS routes in
 LAXOR)
 - VHF : 118.9 (LAXOR) other FIRs.

 Aircraft operators may
 At CAB, contact choose to avoid the
 FL310
 N884 Tokyo Radio: Manila FIR by using
CRM-3 East FL350 Kobe ACC
 (LAXOR - CAB) - HF: 8903 / 4666 alternate ATS routes in
 FL390
 - VHF: 123.9 (LEBIX) other FIRs.

 At JOM, contact Aircraft operators may
 FL320 Singapore ATC: choose to avoid the
 M767 Manila FIR by using
CRM-4 West FL360 Singapore ACC - ADS/CPDLC:
 (JOM - TEGID) alternate ATS routes in
 FL400 Logon WSJC
 - HF: 5655 / 8942 other FIRs.

 Not applicable.
 M772 will be suspended.
N/A M772 N/A N/A N/A No flight planning is N/A
 allowed.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2019
ENR 1.8-26 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

8.10.2 Between Singapore and Ho Chi Minh FIR
8.10.2.1 The following table shows the Contingency Routes (CR) Structure, Flight Level Allocation Scheme (FLAS) and
 Transfer of Control and Communication (TOC) between Singapore and Ho Chi Minh FIR.

 Transfer of
 CR ATS Route Direction FLAS ACC Remarks
 Communication (TOC)
CRS-1 L642 West FL360 Ho Chi Minh ACC At 060000N 1045600E, International operators
 (ESPOB – FL400 contact Kuala Lumpur may choose to avoid the
 060000N ATC: Singapore FIR by using
 1045600E) - VHF: 132.6 alternate ATS routes in
 - HF: 5655 / 8942 other FIRs.
CRS-2 M771 East FL350 Ho Chi Minh ACC At 060000N 1060900E, International operators
 (060000N FL390 contact Ho Chi Minh may choose to avoid the
 1060900E – ATC: Singapore FIR by using
 DUDIS) - ADS / CPDLC: Logon alternate ATS routes in
 VVTS other FIRs.
 - VHF: 133.05 / 120.9
 - HF: 5655 / 8942
CRS-3 N884 East FL310 Ho Chi Minh ACC At 060000N 1095600E, International operators
 (060000N FL350 contact Ho Chi Minh may choose to avoid the
 1095600E – ATC: Singapore FIR by using
 075400N - ADS / CPDLC: Logon alternate ATS routes in
 1122000E) VVTS other FIRs.
 - VHF: 133.05 / 120.7
 - HF: 5655 / 8942

 At 075400N 1122000E,
 contact Manila ATC:
 - ADS / CPDLC: Logon
 RPHI
 - VHF: 118.9 (LAXOR)
 - HF: 5655 / 8942
CRS-4 M768 East FL330 Ho Chi Minh ACC At 064600N 1121500E, International operators
 (064600N contact Kota Kinabalu may choose to avoid the
 1121500E - ATC: Singapore FIR by using
 AKMON ) - ADS / CPDLC: Logon alternate ATS routes in
 WBFC other FIRs.
 - VHF: 126.1
 West FL380 Ho Chi Minh ACC At 064600N 1121500E,
 contact Ho Chi Minh
 ATC:
 - ADS / CPDLC: Logon
 VVTS
 - VHF: 133.05 / 120.7
CRH-1 N891 North FL300 Hanoi ACC At IGARI, contact Hanoi International operators
 (XONAN - IGARI) ACC: may choose to avoid the
 - VHF: 120.9 Ho Chi Minh FIR by using
 South FL330 Hanoi ACC At IGARI, contact alternate ATS routes in
 Singapore ATC: other FIRs.
 - ADS / CPDLC: Logon
 WSJC
 - VHF: 134.35
 - HF: 5655 / 8942
CRH-2 M753 North FL270 Hanoi ACC At IPRIX, contact Hanoi International operators
 (OSOTA – IPRIX) ACC: may choose to avoid the
 - VHF: 120.9 Ho Chi Minh FIR by using
 South FL260 Hanoi ACC At IPRIX, contact alternate ATS routes in
 Singapore ATC: other FIRs.
 - ADS / CPDLC: Logon
 WSJC
 - VHF: 134.35
 - HF: 5655 / 8942




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-27
 15 AUG 2019

 Transfer of
 CR ATS Route Direction FLAS ACC Remarks
 Communication (TOC)
CRH-3 R468 / M768 East FL270 Hanoi ACC At AKMON, contact International operators
 (SAPEN – TSN – Singapore ATC: may choose to avoid the
 AKMON) - ADS / CPDLC: Logon Ho Chi Minh FIR by using
 WSJC alternate ATS routes in
 - HF: 5655 / 8942 other FIRs.
 West FL380 Hanoi ACC At AKMON, contact
 Hanoi ACC:
 - VHF: 133.05
 - HF: 5655 / 8942
CRH-4 L642 West FL310 Hanoi ACC At ESPOB, contact International operators
 (EXOTO – FL320 Singapore ATC: may choose to avoid the
 ESPOB) FL390 - ADS / CPDLC: Logon Ho Chi Minh FIR by using
 FL400 WSJC alternate ATS routes in
 - VHF: 134.35 other FIRs.
 - HF: 5655 / 8942
CRH-5 M771 East FL310 Hanoi ACC At DUDIS, contact Hanoi International operators
 (DUDIS - FL320 ACC: may choose to avoid the
 DONDA) FL390 - VHF: 133.05 / 120.7 Ho Chi Minh FIR by using
 FL400 - HF: 5655 / 8942 alternate ATS routes in
 other FIRs.
CRH-6 N892 West FL310 Hanoi ACC At MELAS, contact International operators
 (MIGUG – FL320 Singapore ATC: may choose to avoid the
 MELAS) FL390 - ADS / CPDLC: Logon Ho Chi Minh FIR by using
 FL400 WSJC alternate ATS routes in
 - VHF: 134.35 other FIRs.
 - HF: 5655 / 8942
CRH-7 L625 East FL310 Hanoi ACC At AKMON, contact International operators
 (AKMON – FL320 Hanoi ACC: may choose to avoid the
 ARESI) FL390 - VHF: 133.05 / 120.7 Ho Chi Minh FIR by using
 FL400 - HF: 5655 / 8942 alternate ATS routes in
 other FIRs.


8.10.3 Between Singapore and Kota Kinabalu FIR
8.10.3.1 To be developed

8.10.4 Between Singapore and Kuala Lumpur FIR
8.10.4.1 To be developed

8.11 TRAFFIC INFORMATION BROADCASTS BY AIRCRAFT (TIBA)

8.11.1 Introduction and applicability of broadcasts
8.11.1.1 Traffic information broadcasts by aircraft are intended to permit reports and relevant supplementary information
 of an advisory nature to be transmitted by pilots on a designated VHF radiotelephone (RTF) frequency for the
 information of pilots of other aircraft in the vicinity.

8.11.1.2 TIBAs shall be introduced only when necessary and as a temporary measure.

8.11.1.3 The broadcast procedures shall be applied in designated airspace where:

 a. there is a need to supplement collision hazard information provided by air traffic services outside controlled
 airspace; or

 b. there is a temporary disruption of normal air traffic services.


8.11.1.4 Such airspaces shall be identified by the States responsible for provision of air traffic services within these
 airspaces, if necessary with the assistance of the appropriate ICAO Regional Office(s), and duly promulgated
 in aeronautical information publications or NOTAM, together with the VHF RTF frequency, the message formats
 and the procedures to be used. Where, in the case of paragraph 8.11.1.3 a., more than one State is involved,
 the airspace should be designated on the basis of regional air navigation agreements and promulgated in Doc
 7030.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.8-28 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

8.11.1.5 When establishing a designated airspace, dates for the review of its applicability at intervals not exceeding 12
 months should be agreed by the appropriate ATS authority(ies).

8.11.2 Details of broadcasts
 VHF RTF frequency to be used

8.11.2.1 The VHF RTF frequency to be used shall be determined and promulgated on a regional basis. However, in the
 case of temporary disruption occurring in controlled airspace, the States responsible may promulgate, as the
 VHF RTF frequency to be used within the limits of that airspace, a frequency used normally for the provision of
 air traffic control service within that airspace.

8.11.2.2 Where VHF is used for air-ground communications with ATS and an aircraft has only two serviceable VHF sets,
 one should be tuned to the appropriate ATS frequency and the other to the TIBA frequency.

 Listening watch

8.11.2.3 A listening watch shall be maintained on the TIBA frequency 10 minutes before entering the designated airspace
 until leaving this airspace. For an aircraft taking off from an aerodrome located within the lateral limits of the
 designated airspace, listening watch should start as soon as appropriate after take-off and be maintained until
 leaving the airspace.

 Time of broadcasts

8.11.2.4 A broadcast shall be made:

 a. 10 minutes before entering the designated airspace or, for a pilot taking off from an aerodrome located
 within the lateral limits of the designated airspace, as soon as appropriate after take-off;

 b. 10 minutes prior to crossing a reporting point;

 c. 10 minutes prior to crossing or joining an ATS route;

 d. at 20-minute intervals between distant reporting points;

 e. 2 to 5 minutes, where possible, before a change in flight level;

 f. at the time of a change in flight level; and

 g. at any other time considered necessary by the pilot.


 Forms of broadcast

8.11.2.5 The broadcasts other than those indicating changes in flight level, i.e. the broadcasts referred to in paragraph
 8.11.2.4 a., b., c., d. and g., should be in the following form:

 ALL STATIONS (necessary to identify a traffic information broadcast)

 (call sign)

 FLIGHT LEVEL (number) (or CLIMBING TO FLIGHT LEVEL (number))

 (direction)

 (ATS route) (or DIRECT FROM (position) TO (position))

 POSITION (position) AT (time)

 ESTIMATING (next reporting point, or the point of crossing or joining a designated ATS route) AT (time)

 (call sign)

 FLIGHT LEVEL (number) (direction)

 Fictitious example:

 "ALL STATIONS WINDAR 671 FLIGHT LEVEL 350 NORTHWEST BOUND DIRECT FROM PUNTA SAGA
 TO PAMPA POSITION 5040 SOUTH 2010 EAST AT 2358 ESTIMATING CROSSING ROUTE LIMA THREE
 ONE AT 4930 SOUTH 1920 EAST AT 0012 WINDAR 671 FLIGHT LEVEL 350 NORTHWEST BOUND OUT"




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.8-29
 15 AUG 2019

8.11.2.6 Before a change in flight level, the broadcast (referred to in paragraph 8.11.2.4 e.) should be in the following
 form:

 ALL STATIONS

 (call sign)

 (direction)

 (ATS route) (or DIRECT FROM (position) TO (position))

 LEAVING FLIGHT LEVEL (number) FOR FLIGHT LEVEL (number) AT (position and time)

8.11.2.7 Except as provided in paragraph 8.11.2.8, the broadcast at the time of a change in flight level (referred to in
 paragraph 8.11.2.4 f.) should be in the following form:

 ALL STATIONS

 (call sign)

 (direction)

 (ATS route) (or DIRECT FROM (position) TO (position))

 LEAVING FLIGHT LEVEL (number) NOW FOR FLIGHT LEVEL (number)
 followed by:

 ALL STATIONS

 (call sign)

 MAINTAINING FLIGHT LEVEL (number)

8.11.2.8 Broadcasts reporting a temporary flight level change to avoid an imminent collision risk should be in the following
 form:

 ALL STATIONS

 (call sign)

 LEAVING FLIGHT LEVEL (number) NOW FOR FLIGHT LEVEL (number)
 followed as soon as practicable by:

 ALL STATIONS

 (call sign)

 RETURNING TO FLIGHT LEVEL (number) NOW




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.9-1
 30 JAN 2020


 ENR 1.9 AIR TRAFFIC FLOW MANAGEMENT (ATFM)

1 AIR TRAFFIC FLOW MANAGEMENT (ATFM)
1.1 ATFM is a service to complement the safe, orderly and efficient delivery of Air Traffic Services (ATS) by regulating
 air traffic flow to match the prevailing capacity at a given airport or airspace. Through ATFM, airspace users
 (AUs) and ATS units (ATSUs) can be made aware of predicted delays so that timely adjustment to operations
 and flight schedules could be made accordingly. ATFM measure such as Ground Delay Programme (GDP),
 Minimum Departure Interval (MDI) and Miles- in-Trail (MIT) are some of the methods to achieve the objectives
 of ATFM as defined in ICAO’s Manual on Collaborative ATFM (Doc 9971).

1.2 For Singapore FIR, ATFM services are provided by Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (CAAS) from the
 Singapore ATFM Unit (ATFMU) operating on a 24-hour basis. The services comprise the planning and
 implementation of ATFM measures to balance demand and capacity. The review of the effectiveness of ATFM
 measures are carried out through the conduct of post operation analysis. The implementation of ATFM measures
 will be coordinated with AUs and ATSUs through Collaborative Decision Making (CDM) processes and agreed
 operating procedures.

2 ATFM OPERATIONS FOR FLIGHTS ARRIVING AT SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
2.1 Where necessary, ATFM measures will be applied for flights scheduled to arrive at Singapore Changi Airport
 (WSSS).

2.2 Flights departing from the following airports may be subjected to ATFM measures:

 ANSP Airport
 Cambodia VDPP, VDSR
 China ZGGG, ZGSZ, ZJHK, ZJSY
 Hong Kong VHHH, VMMC
 Indonesia WIII, WADD, WARR
 Malaysia WBGG, WBGR, WBKK, WMKC, WMKI, WMKJ, WMKK, WMKP, WMSA
 Myanmar VYMD, VYNT, VYYY
 Philippines RPLL
 Thailand VTBS, VTSP, VTBD, VTCC, VTCT, VTSB, VTSG, VTSM, VTSP, VTSS, VTUD
 Vietnam VVTS, VVNB

2.3 When ATFM measures are applied, the Singapore ATFMU will assign Calculated Take-Off Times (CTOTs) to
 flights departing from the airports listed in paragraph 2.2 planning to arrive into Singapore Changi Airport.

2.4 AUs and ATSUs are advised to refer to the Air Traffic Flow Management (ATFM) Portal to access CTOTs
 and/or other pertinent ATFM information via the Civil Aviation Authority Singapore (CAAS) Webpage, link
 provided: http://www.caas.gov.sg/e-services/air-traffic-flow-management

2.5 Compliance to CTOT during the ATFM operation is important, it contributes to the realisation of the ATFM plan.
 It would assist in the reduction of the need for tactical airborne delay, promoting a safer and more efficient
 operating environment for AOs and AUs.

2.6 All AUs planning to arrive into WSSS shall:

 i. file and submit FPLs at least 3 hours before the Estimated Off Block Time (EOBT);
 ii. transmit the appropriate ATS messages (CHG / DLA) when the EOBT changes by more than 15 minutes;
 and
 iii. transmit CNL message if the flight is cancelled after the submission of FPL.

2.7 FPLs and ATS messages shall be addressed to WSJCZQZX.

3 ATFM OPERATIONS FOR FLIGHTS PLANNING TO OPERATE WITHIN THE
 SINGAPORE FIR
3.1 The Singapore ATFMU may implement ATFM measures to facilitate ATC of flow restrictions originated by
 downstream ATSUs, with the aim to provide a higher level of predictability for AUs and affected upstream ATSUs
 when operating in the Singapore FIR. For example, flow restriction on a given ATS route in a form of
 Minutes-in-trail MINIT at downstream segments would be converted into CTOT, and/or Calculated Time Over
 (CTO) at a given waypoint within the Singapore FIR.




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2020
ENR 1.9-2 AIP Singapore
30 JAN 2020

3.2 Procedures for flight plan submission for such ATFM facilitation would be coordinated tactically by the Singapore
 ATFMU with AUs and affected upstream ATSUs. The transmit of the appropriate ATS messages would take
 reference from para 2.6 in the above.

 Note: In general, Singapore ATFMU would request for FPL to be filed and submitted within 1 hour from the
 notification of the activation of ATFM measure.

3.3 FPLs and ATS messages should be addressed to WSJCZQZX.

4 SINGAPORE ATFMU CONTACT INFORMATION AND WEB CONFERENCE
4.1 When ATFM measure are implemented, Singapore ATFMU will open a CDM channel for AUs and affected
 ATSUs through an active web conferencing facilities and ATFM helpdesk thereafter to facilitate operational
 queries from AUs relating to the ATFM measure.

4.2 The contact details of the Singapore ATFMU are as follows:
 Email: CAAS_ATFMU@caas.gov.sg
 Phone: (+65) 62414143, (+65) 62414142
 Fax: (+65) 62414034
 Web Conference link: https://caas.adobeconnect.com/caasatfm

5 BAY OF BENGAL COOPERATIVE ATFM (BOBCAT)

5.1 INTRODUCTION
5.1.1 The States of the ICAO Asia/Pacific Region within the Bay of Bengal, South Asia and Pakistan airspace have
 implemented an automated Air Traffic Flow Management (ATFM) service under the auspices of the ICAO Bay
 of Bengal ATS Coordination Group - ATFM Task Force.

5.2 PROVISION OF ATFM SERVICES
5.2.1 ATFM services are provided by Aeronautical Radio of Thailand LTD (AEROTHAI) from the Bangkok Air Traffic
 Flow Management Unit (ATFMU) at Bangkok ACC. ATFM services will be limited to calculation, promulgation
 and management of mandatory Calculated Take-Off Time (CTOT) and Kabul FIR flight level, ATS route and
 entry fix time, Calculated Time-Over (CTO) for each affected flight.

5.2.2 Singapore ATC retains responsibility for the tactical management of flights that are subject to ATFM. In
 discharging tactical responsibilities, Singapore ATC will manage non-ATFM compliant flights using delayed
 pushback and start clearances, non-preferred routes and/or flight levels, enroute holding and/or diversion around
 Kabul FIR.

5.2.3 The ATFMU utilises the automated web based Bay of Bengal Cooperative ATFM System (BOBCAT) system
 in meeting its ATFM responsibilities. These responsibilities will be managed in coordination with aircraft operators
 and Singapore ATC in the Singapore FIR.

5.2.4 The ATFMU operates on a 24-hour basis and is responsible for westbound flights entering the Kabul FIR at
 specified times, flight levels and ATS routes in accordance with paragraph 2.3. The objectives of these ATFM
 services are to:

 a. reduce ground and en-route delays;
 b. maximise capacity and optimize the flow of air traffic through Kabul FIR;
 c. provide an informed choice of routing and flight level selection;
 d. alleviate unplanned in-flight re-routing and technical stops; and
 e. assist regional Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSPs) in planning for and managing future workload
 in the light of forecast increased traffic flows through Kabul FIR.




AIP AMDT 01/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.9-3
 30 JAN 2020

5.3 ATFM AFFECTED ATS ROUTES, FLIGHT LEVELS AND APPLICABLE HOURS
5.3.1 All westbound flights intending to enter Kabul FIR between 2000UTC and 2359UTC daily on ATS routes and
 flight levels specified in the Table below shall comply with the BOBCAT ATFM procedure. This includes a
 mandatory requirement to obtain ATFM slot allocation - CTOT, CTO at Kabul FIR entry waypoint, allocated
 flight level and allocated ATS route from Bangkok ATFMU for entry into Kabul FIR.

 Metering
 Routing through the Kabul FIR Flight Level
 Waypoint
 L509 - M875 LAJAK FL300, FL320, FL340, FL360, FL380, FL400
 M875 SITAX FL280
 N644 PAVLO FL280, FL300, FL320, FL340, FL360, FL380, FL400
 L750 ROSIE FL280, FL300, FL320, FL340, FL360, FL380, FL400
 P628 ASLUM FL320, FL340, FL360, FL380, FL400
 N636 - P628 SERKA FL280, FL300

5.3.2 Flights that plan to enter Kabul FIR without an ATFM slot allocation will be accommodated only after flights with
 slots have been processed. Such flights should expect delayed pushback and start clearances, non- preferred
 routes and/or flight levels, enroute holding and/or diversion around Kabul FIR.

5.3.3 In order to ensure availability of slots for westbound departures from designated airports in northern India and
 Pakistan, departures from these airports are given priority for FL280 in the slot allocation. This does not preclude
 these flights from requesting higher flight levels with initial slot request.

5.3.4 The following flights are exempted from the ATFM procedures:

 a. Flights experiencing an emergency, including aircraft subjected to unlawful interference;
 b. Flights on search and rescue or firefighting missions;
 c. Urgent medical evacuation flights or humanitarian flights specifically declared by State medical authorities
 that flight delays would put the life of patients aboard at risk; and
 d. Flights with “Head of State” status.

 Note: After medical flights have completed their mission, they should be subjected to ATFM measures. Scheduled
 passenger transfer flights are, by their nature, non-urgent and should not be given priority under normal operational
 situation.

5.3.5 Flights exempted from ATFM procedures shall indicate the exemption in their flight plan as follows: (Field 18 -
 ATFM EXMP).

5.3.6 Singapore AIS shall forward the flight plan information to Bangkok ATFMU at AFTN address VTBBZDZX.

5.4 MANDATORY CTOT AND KABUL FIR SLOT ALLOCATION
5.4.1 Affected flights shall obtain the mandatory Kabul FIR slot allocation - CTOT, CTO at Kabul FIR entry waypoint,
 allocated flight level and allocated ATS route from the BOBCAT system. The CTOT and Kabul slot allocation
 will enable ANSPs to tactically control westbound flights transiting the Kabul FIR at specified times by assigning
 minimum spacing requirements at established gateway fix points in the vicinity of the eastern boundary of the
 Kabul FIR.

5.4.2 The application, calculation and distribution of CTOT and Kabul FIR entry waypoint slot allocations will be
 managed via internet access to the BOBCAT system in accordance with the ATFM operating procedures in
 paragraph 2.5.

5.5 BOBCAT OPERATING PROCEDURES
5.5.1 All affected flights are required to submit their slot requests to the BOBCAT system by logging onto
 https://www.bobcat.aero between 0100UTC and 1159UTC on the day of flight and completing the electronic
 templates provided.

5.5.2 Affected aircraft operators who do not have dedicated BOBCAT username / password access should complete
 the application form provided and fax it to the ATFMU as soon as possible.

5.6 SLOT ALLOCATION PROCESS
5.6.1 The slot allocation process is divided into 3 phases, namely the slot request submission, initial slot allocation
 and finally the slot distribution to aircraft operators and ANSPs.

 Slot Request Submission




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2020
ENR 1.9-4 AIP Singapore
30 JAN 2020

5.6.2 Slot requests including preferred ATS route, flight level and Maximum Acceptable Delay (MAD) should be lodged
 between 0001UTC and 1159UTC on the day of flight. Slot requests may subsequently be amended prior
 1200UTC, which is the cut-off time. Aircraft operators are encouraged to submit additional slot request options
 in case their first choice is not available. This may include variations to ATS route, flight level and MAD.

5.6.3 Slot requests shall be for flight parameters that are able to be met by the flight. For example, flights requesting
 a slot at FL390 must be able to transit Kabul FIR at FL390. Flights subsequently unable to meet the slot
 parameters (flight level, ATS route or CTO at entry waypoint) should expect non-preferred routes and / or flight
 levels, enroute holding and / or diversion around Kabul FIR.

5.6.4 As BOBCAT will allocate FL280 on a priority basis to facilitate departures from northern India and Pakistan
 underneath overflying traffic, flights departing these points are encouraged to include FL280 as at least one slot
 request preference.

5.6.5 Flights that were not allocated a slot in the initial slot allocation, are not satisfied with the allocated slot or did
 not submit a slot request should select slots from the listing of remaining unallocated slots available immediately
 after slot distribution has been completed.

 Slot Allocation and Distribution

5.6.6 Slot allocation will commence at the cut-off time at 1200UTC. BOBCAT will process and generate the slot
 allocation based on the information submitted in the slot requests. Notification of slot allocation will be made not
 later than 1230UTC via the ATFMU website. Alternative arrangements for notification of slot distribution (e.g.
 e-mail, fax, telephone) should be coordinated with the ATFMU.

5.6.7 After the slot allocation has been published at https://www.bobcat.aero, aircraft operators can:

 a. use the slot allocation result for ATS flight planning purposes;

 b. cancel the allocated slot; and / or

 c. change slot allocation to another available slot in the published list of unallocated slots.


5.6.8 Singapore ATC and AIS can also view the slot allocation results at https://www.bobcat.aero.

5.7 SUBMISSION OF ATS FLIGHT PLAN
5.7.1 Once aircraft operators are in receipt of the slot allocation, they shall submit the ATS flight plan using the time,
 ATS route and flight level parameters of the BOBCAT allocated slot.

5.7.2 In addition to the normal addressees, Singapore AIS will also address the flight plan (FPL) and related ATS
 messages (e.g. DLA, CNL, CHG) to the ATFMU via AFTN address VTBBZDZX for all flights that have submitted
 a slot request.

5.8 AIRCRAFT OPERATOR / PILOT-IN-COMMAND AND ANSP RESPONSIBILITIES
 Aircraft Operator / Pilot-in-Command

5.8.1 In accordance with ICAO PANS-ATM provisions, it is the responsibility of the Pilot-in-Command (PIC) and the
 aircraft operator to ensure that the aircraft is ready to taxi in time to meet any required departure time. PIC shall
 be kept informed by their aircraft operators of the CTOT, CTO at Kabul FIR entry waypoint and flight parameters
 (route / level) allocated by BOBCAT.

5.8.2 The PIC, in collaboration with ATC, shall arrange take-off as close as possible to the CTOT in order to meet the
 allocated CTO at Kabul FIR entry waypoint.

 ANSPs

5.8.3 In accordance with ICAO PANS-ATM provisions, flights with an ATFM slot allocation should be given priority
 for take-off to facilitate compliance with the CTOT.

5.8.4 CTOT shall be included as part of the initial ATC clearance. In collaboration with PIC, Singapore ATC shall
 ensure that every opportunity and assistance is granted to a flight to meet the CTOT and allocated CTO at Kabul
 FIR entry waypoint.

5.9 COORDINATION BETWEEN AIRCRAFT OPERATOR / PILOT-IN-COMMAND, ANSPs
 AND BANGKOK ATFMU
5.9.1 The PIC shall include the CTOT in the initial ATC clearance request.



AIP AMDT 01/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.9-5
 30 JAN 2020

5.9.2 PIC shall adjust cruise flight to comply with slot parameters at the Kabul FIR entry waypoint, requesting appropriate
 ATC clearances including speed variations in accordance with the published AIP requirements.

5.9.3 Prior to departure, in circumstances where it becomes obvious that the allocated Kabul FIR entry waypoint slot
 parameters will not be met, a new slot allocation should be obtained as soon as possible and via the most
 expeditious means (e.g. via coordination between flight dispatcher, PIC, Singapore ATC and Bangkok ATFMU).
 Early advice that the Kabul FIR slot parameters will be missed also enables the slots so vacated to be efficiently
 reassigned to other flights.

5.9.4 Prior to departure and after the aircraft has left the gate, in the event that the aircraft is unable to meet the Kabul
 FIR entry waypoint slot parameters, when requested by the PIC, Singapore ATC shall assist the PIC to coordinate
 with the ATFMU for a revised slot allocation.

5.9.5 The ATFMU (VTBBZDZX) shall be included in the list of AFTN addressees for NOTAMs regarding any planned
 activities that may affect slot availability (e.g. reservation of airspace / closure of airspace, non- availability of
 routes, etc.).

5.9.6 The ATFMU (VTBBZDZX) shall be included in the list of AFTN addressees for ATS messages (e.g. FPL, DEP,
 DLA, CHG, CNL) relating to flights subject to ATFM procedures.

5.9.7 A missed slot results in dramatically increased coordination workload for ATC and PIC and should be avoided.
 To minimise coordination workload in obtaining a revised slot allocation, the following procedures are
 recommended:

 a. If the flight is still at the gate, coordination should take place via aircraft operators / flight dispatchers to
 ATFMU;

 b. If the flight has left the gate, coordination to ATFMU may also take place via the ATS unit presently
 communicating with the flight.


5.10 BASIC COMPUTER REQUIREMENT
5.10.1 Aircraft operators and Singapore ATC are required to have computer equipment capable of connecting to the
 BOBCAT website https://www.bobcat.aero via the internet and satisfying the following minimum technical
 requirements:

 a. A personal computer of any operating system with the following characteristics:

 i. Processor: minimum CPU clock speed of 150MHz;

 ii. Operating System: any that operates one of the following web browsers (i.e. Windows 2000 / XP,
 Linux, Unix, or Mac OS);

 iii. Web Browser: Internet Explorer 5.5 or newer, Mozilla 1.0 or newer, Mozilla Firefox 1.0 or newer,
 Netscape 7 or newer;

 iv. RAM: 64MB or larger (depending on operating system);

 v. Hard Disk Space: minimum of 500MB or larger (depending on operating system);

 vi. Monitor Display Resolution: minimum of 800 x 600 pixels; and

 vii. Internet Connection: 56Kbps modem or faster.


5.11 ATFM USERS HANDBOOK
5.11.1 Supporting documentation, including detailed information in respect of the ATFM operations described above
 and other pertinent information has been included in the Bay of Bengal and South Asia ATFM Handbook (the
 “ATFM Users Handbook”), available at https://www.bobcat.aero

5.11.2 ANSPs and aircraft operators shall ensure that they are conversant with and able to apply the relevant procedures
 described in the ATFM Users Handbook.

5.12 CONTINGENCY PROCEDURES
5.12.1 In the event that an aircraft operator or Singapore ATC is unable to access the ATFMU website, the ATFMU
 shall be contacted via the alternative means (telephone, fax, AFTN) described in paragraph 2.13.

5.12.2 Contingency procedures for submission of slot request, including activation of Contingency Slot Request
 Templates (CSRT), are included in the ATFM Users Handbook.

© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2020
ENR 1.9-6 AIP Singapore
30 JAN 2020

5.12.3 In the event of system failure of BOBCAT, ATFMU shall notify all parties concerned and advise that ATFM slot
 allocation procedures are suspended. In this event, all parties concerned will revert to the existing ATM procedures
 as applicable outside the daily period of ATFM metering.

5.13 ATFM SYSTEM FAULT REPORTING
5.13.1 An ATFM system fault is defined as a significant occurrence affecting an ATS unit, an aircraft operator or ATFMU
 resulting from the application of ATFM procedures.

5.13.2 Aircraft operators and Singapore ATC experiencing an ATFM system fault should complete an ATFM System
 Fault Report Form from the ATFM Users Handbook and forward it to the ATFMU at the address indicated on
 the form. The ATFMU will analyse all reports, make recommendations / suggestions as appropriate and provide
 feedback to the parties concerned to enable remedial action.

5.14 ADDRESS OF AIR TRAFFIC FLOW MANAGEMENT UNIT (ATFMU)
5.14.1 The ATFMU may be contacted as follows:

 Unit Name : Bangkok ATFMU
 Telephone : +66-2-287-8024, +66-2-287-8025
 Fax : +66-2-287-8027
 Tel/Fax : +66-2-287-8026
 E-mail : atfmu@bobcat.aero
 AFTN : VTBBZDZX
 Website : https://www.bobcat.aero




AIP AMDT 01/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.10-1
 10 OCT 2019


 ENR 1.10 FLIGHT PLANNING

1 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION OF A FLIGHT PLAN

1.1 Requirement for submission of a Flight Plan
1.1.1 The pilot-in-command or airline operator shall submit an ICAO flight plan to ATC via the AFS or the AIM-SG
 system (accessible by registration at https://aim-sg.caas.gov.sg) for the following flights:

 a. Flights on airways, associated holding areas and all other controlled airspaces whether IFR or VFR;
 b. Any flight or portion thereof to be provided with air traffic control service;
 c. Any flight within or into designated areas, or along designated routes to facilitate co-ordination with
 appropriate military units or with air traffic service units in adjacent States in order to avoid the possible
 need for interception for the purpose of identification;
 d. Any flight across international borders.


1.1.2 The pilot-in-command or the airline operator shall submit details of a test/training flight, planned to be conducted
 in the Seletar aerodrome circuit or in Light Aircraft Training Areas A, B and C, by electronic mail using the
 "Seletar Test/Training Form" retrievable from webpage: https://aim-sg.caas.gov.sg

1.1.3 For a flight that will be operating within Singapore only (except for flights mentioned in paragraph 1.1.2, the
 pilot-in-command or the operator shall submit the ICAO flight plan using the automated AIM-SG system and to
 include Military ATC addressee WSARYWYX. If for any reason a flight plan is not approved, the pilot-in- command
 shall contact RSAF Air Operations Control (AOC) at 67683702 for clarification.

1.1.4 The pilot-in-command or the operator of IFR flight operating out of Seletar is required to file via KK or RECHI -
 PONJO - SJ.

1.1.5 The pilot-in-command or the operator of IFR flight operating into Seletar is required to file according to
 WSSL AD 2.22 Flight Procedures.

1.1.6 VFR flight operating between Seletar and Johor Bahru shall route via Point X (012830N1034954E), Tebrau
 City Mall (013259N1034748E), Felda Ulu Tebrau (013751N1034510E) and vice versa.

1.2 Requirement for submission of a Flight Plan for Test Flights
1.2.1 Test flights shall be conducted on Airway G580 between HOSBA and NIMIX to minimise disruption to civil
 scheduled flight movements and to facilitate the test flight operations.

1.2.2 A flight plan shall be submitted for a test flight at least one hour before departure. The pilot-in- command or the
 operator shall include in Item 18 of the flight plan ‘RMK/TEST FLT APPROVED BY ATC’.

1.2.3 The pilot-in-command shall maintain a 2-way VHF communication with Singapore ATC on the assigned VHF
 frequency at all times.

1.2.4 The pilot-in-command of the test flight shall adhere to ATC instructions at all times. Test flight manoeuvres are
 subject to ATC clearance, real-time coordination and traffic.

1.2.5 Procedures for application to conduct test flights are provided on page GEN 1.2-6 paragraph 5.

1.3 Lead time for filing flight plans and flight plan associated messages
1.3.1 Flight plan shall be filed 120 hours, or five days, at the earliest but no later than 60 minutes prior to departure
 (estimated off-block time).

1.3.2 In the event of a delay of 30 minutes in excess of the estimated off-block time, the flight plan should be amended
 or a new flight plan submitted and the old flight plan cancelled, whichever is applicable. To indicate a delay to
 a flight, a DLA or a CHG message may be used depending on the circumstances.

1.3.3 The old flight plan shall be cancelled and a new flight plan shall be submitted when changes are made to any
 one of the following fields:
 7/Aircraft Identification, 15/Route and/or 16/Destination Aerodrome.

1.3.4 A flight plan submitted in flight on HF RTF shall be submitted at least 20 minutes (or if on VHF RTF at least 10
 minutes) prior to the intended point of entry into a control zone, control area, advisory area or advisory route.

1.3.5 A pilot-in-command may change from an IFR flight plan to a VFR flight plan by reporting “CANCELLING MY
 IFR FLIGHT” when weather conditions indicate that the remainder of the flight can be conducted under VFR.


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2019
ENR 1.10-2 AIP Singapore
10 OCT 2019

 [However, within Singapore, all flights whether IFR or VFR shall be regulated in accordance with instrument
 flight rules.] (see note 2 below).

1.3.6 ATC will acknowledge:

 “IFR flight cancelled at................................(time)” or

 if information is available which indicates the likelihood of IMC prevailing along the route, will notify these
 conditions as follows:

 “Instrument MET conditions reported (or forecast) in the vicinity of.......................................”

 Note:
 1) The fact that pilot flying in VMC does not by itself constitute cancellation of an IFR flight plan.
 2) Within the Singapore/Johor Airspace Complex and Control Zones all flights are regulated in accordance
 with IFR separation standards.

1.4 Persons on board (POB)
1.4.1 The pilot-in-command or his representative is required to state the total number of persons on board (POB - i.e.
 passengers and crew) in the flight plan.

1.5 DATA LINK Communication and Surveillance
1.5.1 Aircraft using data link communications (see page ENR 1.1-15) must insert one or more of the following letters
 in Item 10a of their flight plan to indicate serviceable COM aid equipment and capabilities available:

 J1 CPDLC ATN VDL Mode 2
 J2 CPDLC FANS 1/A HFDL
 J3 CPDLC FANS 1/A VDL Mode A
 J4 CPDLC FANS 1/A VDL Mode 2
 J5 CPDLC FANS 1/A SATCOM (INMARSAT)
 J6 CPDLC FANS 1/A SATCOM (MTSAT)
 J7 CPDLC FANS 1/A SATCOM (Iridium)
 P1 CPDLC RCP 400
 P2 CPDLC RCP 240
 P3 SATVOICE RCP 400
 P4-P9 Reserved for RCP

1.5.2 Aircraft using data link surveillance (page ENR 1.1-15) must insert one or more of the following letters in Item
 10b of their flight plan to indicate serviceable SUR equipment and capabilities available:

 D1 ADS-C with FANS 1/A capabilities
 G1 ADS-C with ATN capabilities

1.5.3 Additional surveillance equipment or capabilities are to be listed in Item 18 following the indicator SUR/ .

1.6 RNAV Approved Aircraft
1.6.1 Aircraft flying on RNAV routes A464, A576, B470, G334, L625, L642, L644, L649, M646, M751, M753, M758,
 M761, M767, M768, M771, M772, M774, N875, N884, N891 and N892 (see page ENR 1.8-12) must be RNAV
 equipped and should annotate their flight plan as follows:

 Item 10 Item 15 Item 18
 RNAV G (GNSS) True Mach NR The types of external GNSS
 equipment is and FL at entry augmentation, if any, are
 carried I (Inertial Navigation) and exit points specified following the indicator
 NAV/ and separated by a space.

 R (PBN approved) The performance based
 Guidance material in the application of navigation levels that can be met
 performance based navigation to a shall be specified following the
 specific route segment, route or area is indicator PBN/.
 contained in the Performance Based
 Navigation Manual (Doc 9613).




AIP AMDT 06/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.10-3
 29 MAR 2018

1.6.2 Aircraft flying on RNAV routes L642 (CHEUNG CHAU-MERSING), L644 (DUDIS-KIKOR), L649 (DAKIX-LAXOR),
 M771 (MERSING-CHEUNG CHAU), M772 (ASISU-LAXOR), N892 (HENGCHUN-MERSING),
 L625 (TOMAN-MEVIN), N884 (MERSING-MANILA) and M767 (JOMALIG-TOMAN) (see page ENR 1.8-16)
 must be RNP 10 approved and shall indicate in their flight plan:

 Item 10 - “R” where R = PBN approved
 Item 18 - PBN/A1 where A1 = RNAV 10 (RNP 10)

1.6.3 Operators of aircraft unable to meet the RNP 10 requirements (see page ENR 1.8-16) and wishing to operate
 at or above FL290 on RNAV routes specified in paragraph 1.6.2 shall annotate their flight plan as follows:

 Item 18 - insert “RMK/REQ FL (insert level)” where FL = the preferred flight level (subject to ATC co-ordination)


1.6.4 Operators of aircraft approved for RNP 1 (P-RNAV) operations shall also include the following information in
 their flight plan:

 Item 10 - “R” where R = PBN approved
 Item 18 - PBN/O1 where O1 = Basic RNP1 all permitted sensors, or
 PBN/O2 where O2 = Basic RNP1 GNSS, or
 PBN/O3 where O3 = Basic RNP1 DME/DME, or
 PBN/O4 where O4 = Basic RNP1 DME/DME/IRU


1.7 RVSM and NON-RVSM Approved Aircraft
1.7.1 Operators of RVSM approved or non-RVSM approved aircraft operating in RVSM airspace (see page ENR
 1.8-5) shall annotate their flight plan as follows:

 Item 10 Item 18
 RVSM approved aircraft W
 Non-RVSM approved aircraft STS/NONRVSM


1.8 Other Documentary and / or Permit Requirements
1.8.1 In addition to the flight planning requirements, all pilots-in-command and aircraft operators should consult the
 respective AIPs for other documentary and / or permit requirements for flights intending to enter, depart, and /
 or overfly the sovereign airspaces of States along the planned flight routes.




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2018
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.11-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 1.11 ADDRESSING OF FLIGHT PLAN MESSAGES
1 Flight movement messages relating to traffic into or via the Singapore FIR shall be addressed as stated below
 in order to warrant correct relay and delivery.

 Category of flight Route Message
 (IFR, VFR or both) (into or via FIR and/or TMA) Address
 1 2 3

 All flights Transiting Singapore FIR WSJCZQZX
 (WSJC)

 Inbound to Singapore Changi Airport WSJCZQZX
 (WSSS)

 Outbound from Singapore Changi Airport WSSSYOYX
 (WSSS)

 Inbound to Seletar Airport WSJCZQZX WSSLYOYX
 (WSSL)

 Outbound from Seletar Airport WSSLYOYX
 (WSSL)

 Inbound to/Outbound from Paya Lebar Airport WSJCZQZX WSAPYWYX
 (WSAP)

 Inbound to/Outbound from Tengah Airport WSJCZQZX WSATYWYX
 (WSAT)



 Note:
 Flight movement messages comprise flight plan messages, amendment messages relating thereto and flight
 plan cancellation messages (ICAO DOC 4444 - PANS-ATM, Chapter 11, paragraph 11.2.1.1.3 refers).




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.12-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 1.12 INTERCEPTION OF CIVIL AIRCRAFT

1 INTERCEPTION PROCEDURES
 The following procedures and visual signals shall apply over the territory and territorial waters of the Republic
 of Singapore in the event of interception of an aircraft.

1.1 ACTION BY INTERCEPTED AIRCRAFT
1.1.1 An aircraft which is intercepted by another aircraft shall immediately:

 a. Follow the instructions given by the intercepting aircraft, interpreting and responding to the visual signals
 listed on pages ENR 1.12-3 to 1.12-4.
 b. Notify, if possible, the appropriate air traffic services unit;
 c. Attempt to establish radiocommunication with the intercepting aircraft or with the appropriate intercept
 control unit, by making a general call on the emergency frequency 121.5MHz, giving the identity of the
 intercepted aircraft and the nature of the flight; and if no contact has been established and if practicable,
 repeating this call on the emergency frequency 243MHz;
 d. If equipped with SSR transponder, select Mode A, Code 7700, unless otherwise instructed by the
 appropriate ATS unit.
 e. If equipped with ADS-B or ADS-C, select the appropriate emergency functionality, if available, unless
 otherwise instructed by the appropriate ATS unit.

1.2 RADIO COMMUNICATION DURING INTERCEPTION
1.2.1 If radio contact is established during interception but communication in a common language is not possible,
 attempts shall be made to convey instructions, acknowledgement of instructions and essential information by
 using the following phrases and pronunciations and transmitting each phrase twice:

 Phrases for use by INTERCEPTED aircraft
 Phrase Pronunciation
 @
 Meaning
 CALL SIGN KOL SA-IN My call sign is
 
 (call sign) (call sign) (call sign)

 WILCO VILL-KO Understood. Will comply

 CAN NOT KANN NOTT Unable to comply

 REPEAT REE-PEET Repeat your instruction

 AM LOST AM LOST Position unknown

 MAYDAY MAYDAY I am in distress

 #
 HIJACK HI-JACK I have been hijacked

 LAND LAAND I request to land at
 (place name) (place name) (place name)

 DESCEND DEE-SEND I require descent

 @
 In the second column, syllables to be emphasised are underlined.
 
 The call sign required to be given is that used in radiotelephony communications with air traffic services units
 and corresponding to the aircraft identification in the flight plan.
 #
 Circumstances may not always permit, nor make desirable, the use of the phrase “HIJACK”.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.12-2 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

1.3 The phrases shown in the table below shall be used by the intercepting aircraft and transmitted twice in the
 circumstances described in the preceding paragraph.

 Phrases for use by INTERCEPTING aircraft
 Phrase Pronunciation
 @
 Meaning
 CALL SIGN KOL SA-IN What is your call sign?

 FOLLOW FOL-LO Follow me

 DESCEND DEE-SEND Descend for landing

 YOU LAND YOU LAAND Land at this aerodrome

 PROCEED PRO-SEED You may proceed

 @
 In the second column, syllables to be emphasized are underlined.

1.4 If any instructions received by radio from any sources conflict with those given by the intercepting aircraft by
 visual signals, the intercepted aircraft shall request immediate clarification while continuing to comply with the
 visual instructions given by the intercepting aircraft.

1.5 If any instructions received by radio from any sources conflict with those given by the intercepting aircraft by
 radio, the intercepted aircraft shall request immediate clarification while continuing to comply with the radio
 instructions given by the intercepting aircraft.

1.6 The visual signals for use in the event of interception are detailed on page ENR 1.12-3




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.12-3
 12 NOV 2015


 SIGNALS INITIATED BY INTERCEPTING AIRCRAFT AND RESPONSES BY INTERCEPTED AIRCRAFT

 INTERCEPTED Aircraft
 Series INTERCEPTING Aircraft Signals Meaning Meaning
 Responds

 1 DAY or NIGHT - Rocking aircraft and flashing You have DAY or NIGHT - Rocking Understood,
 navigational lights at irregular intervals (and been aircraft, flashing navigational will comply
 landing lights in the case of a helicopter) from intercepted, lights at irregular intervals
 a position slightly above and ahead of, and Follow me and following.
 usually to the left of, the intercepted aircraft
 (or to the right if the intercepted aircraft is a Note: Additional action
 helicopter) and, after acknowledgement, a required to be taken by
 slow level turn, normally to the left, (or to the intercepted aircraft is
 right in the case of a helicopter) on the desired prescribed in Chapter 3 para
 heading. 3.8, Annex 2, Rules of the
 Air.
 Note: 1. Meteorological conditions or terrain
 may require the intercepting aircraft to reverse
 the positions and direction of turn given above
 in Series 1.

 Note: 2. If the intercepted aircraft is not able
 to keep pace with the intercepting aircraft,
 the latter is expected to fly a series of race-
 track patterns and to rock the aircraft each
 time it passes the intercepted aircraft.

 2 DAY or NIGHT - An abrupt breakaway You may DAY or NIGHT – Rocking the Understood,
 manoeuvre from the intercepted aircraft proceed. aircraft. will comply.
 consisting of a climbing turn of 90 degrees or
 more without crossing the line of flight of the
 intercepted aircraft.

 3 DAY or NIGHT - Lowering landing gear (if Land at this DAY or NIGHT - Lowering Understood,
 fitted), showing steady landing lights and aerodrome. landing gear, (if fitted), will comply.
 overflying runway in use or, if the intercepted showing steady landing lights
 aircraft is a helicopter, overflying the helicopter and following the intercepting
 landing area. In the case of helicopters, the aircraft and, if, after
 intercepting helicopter makes a landing overflying the runway in use
 approach, coming to hover near to the landing or helicopter landing area,
 area. landing is considered safe,
 proceeding to land.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 1.12-4 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015


 SIGNALS INITIATED BY INTERCEPTING AIRCRAFT AND RESPONSES BY INTERCEPTED AIRCRAFT

 INTERCEPTING Aircraft
 Series Meaning INTERCEPTED Aircraft Responds Meaning
 Signals

 4 DAY or NIGHT - Raising landing Aerodrome DAY or NIGHT - If it is desired that the Understood,
 gear (if fitted) and flashing landing you have intercepted aircraft follow the follow me.
 lights while passing over runway designated intercepting aircraft to an alternate
 in use or helicopter landing area at is aerodrome, the intercepting aircraft
 a height exceeding 300m (1 000ft) inadequate raises its landing gear (if fitted) and
 but not exceeding 600m (2 000ft) uses the Series 1 signals prescribed
 (in the case of a helicopter, at a for intercepting aircraft.
 height exceeding 50m (170ft) but
 not exceeding 100m (330ft) )above If it is decided to release the Understood,
 the aerodrome level, and intercepted aircraft, the intercepting you may
 continuing to circle runway in use aircraft uses the Series 2 signals proceed.
 or helicopter landing area. If prescribed for intercepting aircraft.
 unable to flash landing lights, flash
 any other lights available.

 5 DAY or NIGHT – Regular Cannot DAY or NIGHT – Use Series 2 signals Understood.
 switching on and off of all available comply. prescribed for intercepting aircraft.
 lights but in such a manner as to
 be distinct from flashing lights.

 6 DAY or NIGHT – Irregular flashing In distress. DAY or NIGHT – Use Series 2 signals Understood.
 of all available lights. prescribed for intercepting aircraft.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 1.13-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 1.13 UNLAWFUL INTERFERENCE
1.1.1 The pilot of an aircraft in flight which is subjected to unlawful interference shall endeavour to set his transponder
 to Code 7500.

1.1.2 When a pilot has selected Mode A and Code 7500 and is subsequently requested to confirm his code by ATC
 he shall either confirm this or not reply at all. The absence of a reply from the pilot will be taken by ATC as an
 indication that the use of Code 7500 is not due to an inadvertent false code selection.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 1.14-1
 10 DEC 2015


 ENR 1.14 AIR TRAFFIC INCIDENTS

1 DEFINITION OF AIR TRAFFIC INCIDENTS
1.1 An incident is an occurrence other than an accident associated with the operation of an aircraft which affect or
 could affect the safety of operation.

1.2 An incident may be caused by any of the following:

 a. Ground Organisation:

 i. abnormal function or operation of radio communication or navigational aids, faulty organisation or
 procedure;
 ii. personal negligence, incompetence, error or misapplication of procedures or instructions.

 b. Aircrew - negligence, incompetence, error of judgement, misapplication of procedures or failure to comply
 with procedures or instructions.
 c. Aircraft - defects in the aircraft or its equipment.
 d. Severe meteorological conditions.

2 USE OF AIR TRAFFIC INCIDENT REPORTING FORMS
2.1 Pilots shall file all incident reports on the “Air Traffic Incident Report Form” (see pages ENR 1.14-3 to ENR
 1.14-6) in order to speed up the process of investigation of the various categories of incidents.

3 AIR TRAFFIC INCIDENT REPORTING PROCEDURES
3.1 A pilot should proceed as follows regarding an incident in which he is or has been involved:

 a. during flight, use the appropriate air/ground frequency for reporting an incident of major significance,
 particularly if it involves other aircraft, so as to permit the facts to be ascertained immediately;

 b. as promptly as possible after landing submit a completed “Air Traffic Incident Report Form”:

 i. for confirming a report of an incident made initially as in 3.1 a) above, or for making the initial report
 on such an incident if it had not been possible to report it by radio;

 ii. for reporting an incident which did not require immediate notification at the time of occurrence.



3.2 An initial report made by radio should contain the following information:
 A - Type of incident, e.g. near collision.
 F - Radio call sign of aircraft making report.
 J - Position, heading or route, true airspeed.
 K - FL, altitude or height, and aircraft altitude.
 L - IMC or VMC.
 M - Time of incident, in UTC.
 N - Description of other aircraft, if relevant.
 O - Brief details of incident, including when appropriate, sighting distance and miss distance.


3.3 The confirmatory report on an incident of major significance initially reported by radio or the initial report on any
 other incident should be submitted to the Aeronautical Information Services located at Passenger Terminal 1,
 East, 4th Storey, Room 041-52 on the “Air Traffic Incident Report Form.” A copy of the incident report form
 should also be forwarded to the Co-ordination/Investigation Authority as shown in page ENR 1.14-2 para 5 and
 the operating company or agency concerned.

3.4 The Duty Air Traffic Control Officer will complete the “Air Traffic Incident Report Form” on receipt of the initial
 report and forward it as soon as possible to the Chief Air Traffic Control Officer as well as to the operating agency
 concerned, unless it is apparent that the reporting pilot has already done so.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2015
ENR 1.14-2 AIP Singapore
15 SEP 2016

4 INVESTIGATION
4.1 All Incident Reports filed will be thoroughly investigated and the complainant will be notified of the results of the
 investigation as soon as possible.

5 CO-ORDINATION/INVESTIGATION AUTHORITY
5.1 Co-ordination/Investigation Authority responsible for the Co-ordination/Investigation of Near Collision/
 Infringements, ATC Complaints, Fault Reporting and Post-Flight Information Service:

 Co-ordination/Investigation Authority Area Of Responsibility

 Director-General of Civil Aviation Within Singapore FIR, the airspace within Kuala Lumpur FIR for which
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Singapore ACC is responsible for providing ATS and the airspace above
 Singapore Changi Airport the South China Sea Corridor.
 P O Box 1 (Refer to pages ENR 2.1-1 to ENR 2.1-4)
 Singapore 918141




6 OTHER REPORTS UNDER ICAO INITIATIVE FOR DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS
 PURPOSES
6.1 Wake Vortex

6.1.1 Pilots experiencing any wake vortex encounters within the Singapore Flight Information Region should report
 such encounters by filling out the Wake Vortex Encounter Reporting Form and submitting the form to CAAS.
 The contact address, facsimile and e-mail address can be found on the form.

6.1.2 Alternatively, pilots can submit the report online direct to ICAO at:

 http://www.icao.int/fsix/wakevortexformpilot.html

7 INDEX OF REPORTING FORMS APPENDED TO THIS SECTION
 S/N Form Page
 1 Air Traffic Incident Report Form ENR 1.14-3 to ENR 1.14-6
 2 Wake Vortex Encounter Reporting Form for Pilots ENR 1.14-7 to ENR 1.14-8




AIP AMDT 05/2016 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP ENR 1.14-3
SINGAPORE 15 SEP 16




 CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY OF SINGAPORE
 REPUBLIC OF SINGAPORE



 AIR TRAFFIC INCIDENT REPORT FORM
For use when submitting and receiving reports on air traffic incidents. In an initial report by radio, shaded items should be included.
 B – TYPE OF INCIDENT
A – AIRCRAFT IDENTIFICATION
 AIRPROX / OBSTRUCTION ON RUNWAY / RUNWAY INCURSION /
 PROCEDURE / FACILITY
C — THE INCIDENT

1. General
 a) Date / time o f incident ______________________________________________________________________UTC

 b) Position ___________________________________________________________ __________________________


2. Own aircraft

 a) Heading and route ____________________________________________________________________ ______

 b) True airspeed ____________________________________ measured in ( ) kt _______ ( ) km/h ________
 c) Level and altimete r setting ___ ________________________________________________________________

 d) Aircraft climbin g or descending
 ( ) Level flight ( ) Climbing ( ) Descending
 e) Aircraft bank angle

 ( ) Wings level ( ) Slight bank ( ) Moderate bank
 ( ) Steep ban k ( ) Inverted ( ) Unknown

 f) Aircraft direction of bank
 ( ) Left ( ) Right ( ) Unknown

 g) Restrictions to visib ility (select as many as required)

 ( ) Sun glare ( ) Windscreen pillar ( ) Dirty windscreen
 ( ) Other cockpit structure ( ) None

 h) Use of aircraft lighting (select as many as required)

 ( ) Navigation li ghts ( ) Strobe lights ( ) Cabin ligh ts

 ( ) Red anti-collision lights ( ) Lan ding / taxi lights ( ) Logo (tail fin) lights
 ( ) Other ( ) None

 i) Traffic avoidance advice issued by ATS
 ( ) Yes, based on ATS surveillance ( ) Yes, based on visual sighting ( ) Yes, based on other
 system information
 ( ) No
 j) Traffic informati on issued
 ( ) Yes, based on ATS surveillance ( ) Yes, based on visual sighting ( ) Yes, based on other
 system information
 ( ) No



 Delete as appropriate




©2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 5/16
ENR 1.14-4 AIP
15 SEP 16 SINGAPORE




 k) A irborne collision avoidance system — ACAS

 ( ) Not carried ( ) Type ( ) Traffic advisory issued

 ( ) Resolution advisory issued ( ) Traffic advi sory or resolution
 advisory no t issued
 l) Identification

 ( ) No ATS surveillance system ( ) Identification ( ) No id entification
 Available

 m) O ther aircraft sighted

 ( ) Yes ( ) No ( ) Wrong aircraft sighted

 n) A voiding action taken

 ( ) Yes ( ) No

 o) Type of flight plan IFR / VFR / none


 3. Other aircraft

 a) Type and call sign / registration (if known) _______________________________________ _________________

 b) If a) above not known, describe below

 ( ) High wing ( ) Mid wing ( ) Low Wing

 ( ) Rotorcraft

 ( ) 1 engine ( ) 2 engines ( ) 3 engines

 ( ) 4 engines ( ) More than 4 e ngines

 Marking, colour or other available details
 ______________________________________________ ____________________________________________ ___
 ______________________________________________ ____________________________________________ ___
 ______________________________________________ ____________________________________________ ___
 ______________________________________________ ____________________________________________ ___

 c) Aircraft climbing or descending

 ( ) Level flight ( ) Climbing ( ) Descending

 ( ) Unknown

 d) Aircraft bank angl e

 ( ) Wings level ( ) Slight ban k ( ) Moderate bank

 ( ) Steep bank ( ) Inverte d ( ) Unknown

 e) Aircraft directio n of bank

 ( ) Left ( ) Right ( ) Unknown

 f) Lights displayed

 ( ) Navigation lights ( ) Strobe lights ( ) Cabin lights

 ( ) Red anti-collision lights ( ) Landing / taxi lights ( ) Logo (tail fin) lights

 ( ) Other ( ) None ( ) Unknown


 Delete as appropriate



AIP AMDT 5/16 ©2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP ENR 1.14-5
SINGAPORE 15 SEP 16



 g) Traffic avoidance advice issued by ATS

 ( ) Yes, based on ATS surveillance ( ) Yes, based on visual sighting ( ) Yes, based on other
 system information
 ( ) No ( ) Unknown


 h) Traffic information issued

 ( ) Yes, based on ATS surveillance ( ) Yes, based on visual sighting ( ) Yes, based on other
 system information
 ( ) No ( ) Unknown

 i) A voiding action taken
 ( ) Yes ( ) No ( ) Unknown



 4. Distance

 a) Closest horizontal distance ____________________________________________________ __________________
 b) Closest vertical distance __________________ ___________________________________ ____________________


 5. Flight meteorological conditions
 a) IMC / VMC

 b) Above / below clouds / fog / haze or between layers
 c) Distance vertically from cloud __ ________ m / ft below __________ m / ft above
 d) In cl oud / rain / snow / sleet / fog / haze
 e) Flying into / out of sun

 f) Flight visibility _______ m / km

 6. Any other information considered important by the pilot-in-command
 ___________ ____________________________________________ ___________________________________________
 ___________ ____________________________________________ ___________________________________________
 ___________ ____________________________________________ ___________________________________________
 ___________ ____________________________________________ ___________________________________________
 ___________ ____________________________________________ ___________________________________________



 D — MISCELLANEOUS
 1. Inform ation regarding reporting aircra ft
 a) Aircraft registration _______________________________________ ______________________________________
 b) Aircraft type _____________________________________________ ______________________________________

 c) Operator _____________________________ ______________________________________ __________________

 d) Aerodrome of departure __ ___________________________________________________ ___________________

 e) Aerodrome of first landing ____________________ Destination _________________________ ________________
 f) Repo rted by radio or other means to ______________________ (name of ATS unit) at date/time ___________ UTC
 g) Date / time / place of completion of form __________________________ __________________________________




 Delete as appropriate




©2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 5/16
ENR 1.14-6 AIP
1 6(3 16 SINGAPORE




 2. Function, addres s and signature of person submitting report
 a) Function _____________________________ ________________________________________ ___________

 b) Address ___________________________________________________ _____________________________
 c) Signature __________________________________________________ _____________________________

 d) Telephone number ___________________________________________ _____________________________



 3. Function and signature of person receiving report

 a) Function __________________________ b) Signature _____________ ___________________________



 E — SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION BY ATS UNIT CONCERNED

 1. Receipt of report
 a) Report received via AFTN / radio / telephone / other (specify) _ _____________________________________

 b) Report received by _____________________ _____________ (name of ATS unit)



 2. Details of ATS action

 Clearance, incid ent seen (ATS surveillance system/visually, warning given, result of local enquiry, etc.)

 ______________ ____________________________________________ __________________________________
 ______________ ____________________________________________ __________________________________
 ______________ ____________________________________________ __________________________________
 ______________ ____________________________________________ __________________________________




AIP AMDT 5/16 ©2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP ENR 1.14-7
SINGAPORE 15 AUG 19




 WAKE VORTEX ENCOUNTER REPORTING FORM FOR PILOTS

 Date and Time Date of incident
 Time (UTC)

 Aircraft Type Make
 Model
 Series

 Altitude Height m or ft

 Altitude m or ft

 Flight level

 Geographical Location
 Position
 State
 Airport
 Runway L C R

 Details Phase of flight take-off
 initial climb
 climb
 cruise
 descent
 approach
 final
 touch-down
 taxiing
 other
 Were you turning? yes no L R

 Which holding pattern
 were you in, if any?

 Were you: high low on the glide path

 Were you: left of right of on the centre-line

 Weight: kg

 IAS kts

 Heading degrees
 Other What led you to
 suspect wake vortex
 as the cause of the
 disturbance?
 Did you Please describe:
 experience
 yes no
 vertical
 acceleration?
 What was the Pitch:
 change in
 attitude? Roll:
 Please estimate Yaw:
 angle.
©2019 CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY SINGAPORE AIP AMDT 05/2019
ENR 1.14-8 AIP
15 AUG 19 SINGAPORE




 Was there any yes
 change in no
 altitude? n/a

 Was there yes
 buffeting? no
 n/a
 Was there stall yes
 warning? no
 n/a
 Was the autopilot yes
 engaged? no
 n/a
 What control none
 action was taken? go-around
 runway change
 other
 Please describe briefly:



 Could you see the
 aircraft suspected yes
 of generating the no
 wake vortex? n/a


 If yes, what was Make –
 it?
 Model –
 Series -

 Where was it Separation distance:
 relative to your
 Clock reference:
 position?

 Were you aware
 of the preceding yes
 aircraft type no
 before the n/a
 encounter?




Please submit the completed form to CAAS via fax: +65 65423869 or via post to:



Victor Tan Yong Meng
Head (ATS Regulation)
Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
P. O. Box 1, Singapore Changi Airport,
Singapore 918141

or email to: victor_tan@caas.gov.sg




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 CIVIL AVIATION AUTHORITY SINGAPORE
AIP Singapore ENR 2.1-1
 03 JAN 2019



 ENR 2 AIR TRAFFIC SERVICES AIRSPACE


 ENR 2.1 FIR, UIR, TMA
 Call sign
 Name Languages
 Unit
 Lateral limits Area and Frequency
 providing Remarks
 Upper limit/Lower limit conditions of /Purpose
 service
 Class of airspace use
 Hr of ser
 1 2 3 4 5

 SINGAPORE FIR

070000N 1030000E 070000N 1080000E SINGAPORE SINGAPORE 255.4MHz The responsibility for providing
103000N 1140000E 082500N 1163000E ACC RADAR air traffic services to flights
021500N 1083000E 010000N 1083000E Primary within the following portions of
010000N 1085400E, thence south along the English 123.7 MHz the Singapore FIR lying
coastline of Borneo to 001500N 1090000E to 133.25MHz between Kuala Lumpur and
Equator 1090000E Equator 1080000E H24 134.4MHz Kota Kinabalu Flight
005000S 1060000E Equator 1051000E 133.8MHz Information Regions, shall be
Equator 1044600E, thence around the arc of 134.2MHz vested in the Kuala Lumpur
a circle radius 100NM centred on Singapore 134.35 MHz ACC.
Island to 013900N 1021000E 011300N
1033000E 011700N 1033600E, thence east Secondary The airspace bounded by a line
along the international boundary of 127.3 MHz from 023600N 1044500E to
Singapore/Peninsular Malaysia, thence along 135.8MHz 020000N 1070000E and
012000N to 012000N 1042000E 023600N 128.1MHz thereafter along 020000N in
1044500E 034000N 1034000E 045000N 133.35MHz the Singapore and Kota
1034400E 064500N 1024000E 070000N 133.6 MHz Kinabalu FIR boundary, thence
1030000E. along this boundary to
 SEA 1 060000N 1132000E thence
 6556kHz along 060000N to the
 UNL
 11297kHz Singapore and Kuala Lumpur
 GND/MSL
 FIR boundary thence along the
 SEA 2
 boundary to 023600N
 5655kHz
 1044500E and from surface
 8942kHz
 level to FL150 west of
 11396kHz
 longitude 105E and, from
 SEA 3 surface level to FL200 east of
 6556kHz longitude 105E.
 (Ref ANP-ASIA/PAC, Rec 7/4)

 SEA 1, SEA 2, SEA 3: SSB
 Suppressed Carriers.

 SINGAPORE AFN Suitably equipped aircraft
 CONTROL LOGON operating outside radar cover
 and not in ADS-B exclusive
 SOUTH WSJC airspace within the Singapore
 CHINA SEA FIR should log on to
 Singapore’s AFN LOGON
 English address at least 10 minutes
 prior to entering the
 H24
 above-mentioned airspace in
 Singapore FIR. Area
 Navigation (RNAV) routes
 suitable for ADS-C and / or
 CPDLC logon are described in
 ENR 3.3.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2019
ENR 2.1-2 AIP Singapore
03 JAN 2019

 Call sign
 Name Languages
 Unit
 Lateral limits Area and Frequency
 providing Remarks
 Upper limit/Lower limit conditions of /Purpose
 service
 Class of airspace use
 Hr of ser
 1 2 3 4 5
AREAS WITHIN THE KUALA LUMPUR FIR
FOR WHICH SINGAPORE ACC IS
RESPONSIBLE FOR PROVIDING ATS

SECTOR 1:
That airspace contained within coordinates SINGAPORE SINGAPORE Primary Controlling Authority: Johor
011300N 1033000E 012203N 1030209E ACC RADAR 133.25MHz APP for airspaces below
thence along an arc radius 50 DME SJ to Sectors 1 and 2, Airway W401
014529N 1031305E 014225N 1031728E, English Secondary and south of VMR DVOR.
thence along the Johor TMA western boundary 135.8MHz
to 013022N 1033437E 012600N 1034055E, H24 Note:
thence along the Peninsular Malaysia and In the event an aircraft in the
Singapore international boundary to 011700N areas is forced to make an
1033600E 011300N 1033000E. The airspace emergency descent which will
herein is designated as follows: penetrate Malaysian airspace,
 the pilot shall advise
a. AREA B(SJ DVOR/DME - 35 DME SJ) Singapore ATC immediately.
 - 3 000ft to FL245
b. AREA D (35 DME SJ - 45 DME SJ)
 - 5 500ft to FL245
c. AREA F (45 DME SJ - 50 DME SJ)
 - 9 500ft to FL245


SECTOR 2:
That airspace contained within coordinates SINGAPORE SINGAPORE Primary
013206N 1035031E 022205N 1034724E ACC RADAR 123.7 MHz
025234N 1033340E 025432N 1034341E 133.8 MHz
033822N 1034139E 023600N 1044500E English
012000N 1042000E 012000N 1040528E Secondary
thence along the Peninsular Malaysia and H24 127.3 MHz
Singapore international boundary to 012600N
1034055E to 013022N 1033437E 013130N
1034236E to 013206N 1035031E. The
airspace herein is designated as follows:

a. AREA A (PU DVOR/DME - 30 DME PU
 excluding the northern portion of Changi
 CTR) - 2 000FT to FL245
b. AREA C (30 DME PU - 61 DME PU)
 - 5 500FT to FL300
c. AREA E (61 DME PU - 90 DME PU)
 - FL120 to FL360
d. AREA H (from 025432N 1034341E
 thence along the 90 DME PU arc to the
 FIR boundary (024712N 1043337E)
 thence to 033822N 1034139E, 025432N
 1034341E) - FL145 to FL360

ATS ROUTES W401 and G579
a. W401 [Airspace between KK and PU SINGAPORE SINGAPORE
 radial 324 from 2,000ft to FL245 and PU ACC RADAR
 radial 324 to PIMOK (excluding
 WMP228) from 3,000ft to FL245]. English
b. G579 from 2000ft to FL460.
 H24




AIP AMDT 01/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 2.1-3
 03 JAN 2019

 Call sign
 Name Languages
 Unit
 Lateral limits Area and Frequency
 providing Remarks
 Upper limit/Lower limit conditions of /Purpose
 service
 Class of airspace use
 Hr of ser
 1 2 3 4 5

SINGAPORE /JOHOR AIRSPACE
COMPLEX

All controlled airspace within 022600N SINGAPORE SINGAPORE Primary Upper limit FL450 from
1025605E 022600N 1043400E 004300N ACC RADAR 123.7 MHz HOSBA [34 DME SJ R-079
1043400E 004300N 1025605E. 133.8 MHz (24 DME VTK R-103)]
 English
 FL250 Secondary Lower limit varies from 2 000ft
 H24 127.3 MHz to 3 500ft ALT.
 2 000ft ALT


ALL AIRWAYS WITHIN THE SINGAPORE SINGAPORE SINGAPORE Primary Airspaces within the Kuala
FIR, KUALA LUMPUR FIR AND ITS ACC RADAR 133.25MHz Lumpur FIR under the control
TRANSFER AREAS AND KOTA KINABALU 123.7 MHz of Singapore ACC are depicted
FIR English 133.8 MHz in diagrams in AIP pages:
 ENR 2.1-11 for AWY A464
(see subsection ENR 3.1) H24 Secondary ENR 2.1-13 for AWY B469
 135.8MHz
 127.3 MHz


OCEANIC CONTROL AREA WITHIN
SINGAPORE FIR (CTA)

011800N 1035330E 011138N 1040740E SINGAPORE SINGAPORE 134.4MHz (PRI) Portion of Airways A464, A576,
011510N 1042610E 011525N 1042950E ACC RADAR 128.1MHz B469, B470 and G579 are
010235N 1043405E 002500N 1074200E (SRY) within these lateral limits.
Equator 1083600E to Equator 1080000E to English 255.4MHz
005000S 1060000E and thence along the
Singapore/Jakarta FIR boundary to intersect H24
the western boundary of G579 drawn on a 7.5°
deg tolerance from SJ DVOR/DME

 FL460
 6 000ft ALT




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2019
ENR 2.1-4 AIP Singapore
25 APR 2019

 Call sign
 Name Languages
 Unit
 Lateral limits Area and Frequency
 providing Remarks
 Upper limit/Lower limit conditions of /Purpose
 service
 Class of airspace use
 Hr of ser
 1 2 3 4 5

TANJUNG PINANG TMA

002448N 1043700E follow the circle radius TANJUNG TANJUNG 130.2MHz Tanjung Pinang Approach
30NM from TI NDB (0055.0N 10432.0E) PINANG PINANG Control Office (APP) shall be
anti-clockwise until 010342N 1050018E APPROACH APPROACH responsible for the provision of
005612N 1053200E thence along the circle CONTROL Air Traffic Control Service to
with radius 60NM from TI NDB (0055.0N OFFICE English controlled flights within
10432.0E) clockwise until 000224N 1050206E (APP) Tanjung Pinang TMA/CTR.
002448N 1043700E H24
 Position Reporting Procedures
10 000ft Aircraft operating within or
3000 FT about to enter Tanjung Pinang
 CTR shall report position:
TANJUNG PINANG NORTH CONTROL
 a. Over Tanjung Pinang
ZONE (CTR)
 TMA boundary.
 b. Over any other point or
012000N 1041224E 011305N 1042029E
 time as instructed by
010942N 1043500E thence along the circle
 ATC.
radius 27NM from BTM VOR/DME clockwise
until 004236N 1041654E 005315N 1040335E
 VFR Flights
010018N 1035530E 012000N 1041224E
 1. Flight Information and
 3 000ft
 alerting service shall
GND/MSL only be provided to VFR
 flight operating within
TANJUNG PINANG SOUTH CONTROL Tanjung Pinang
ZONE (CTR) CTR/TMA on request.
 VFR flight requesting
004236N 1041654E follow the circle radius this service shall report
27NM from BTM VOR/DME anti-clockwise until intended action and
010942N 1043500E 010342N 1050018E comply with the position
thence along the circle radius 30NM from TI or as required by ATC.
NDB clockwise until 002448N 1043700E 2. No aircraft shall operate
004236N 1041654E under VFR within
 Tanjung Pinang
 6 000ft TMA/CTR until prior
GND/MSL authorization has been
 obtained from Tanjung
 Pinang Approach.

 Altimeter Setting Procedures
 The ICAO Standard Altimeter
 Setting Procedures shall be
 used by aircraft operating
 within Tanjung Pinang CTR:

 Transition Level: FL130
 Transition Altitude: 11 000ft




AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 95°E 100°E 105°E 110°E 115°E




 AIP Singapore
© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 FIR
 YANGON FIR
 MANILA
 10°30'N
 114°00'E




 SINGAPORE AND ADJACENT FLIGHT INFORMATION REGIONS
 10°N 10°N
 FIR
 BANGKOK
 FIR 08°25'N
 HO CHI MINH 116°30'E



 FIR 07°00'N
 103°00'E FIR
 KUALA LUMPUR 06°45'N SINGAPORE
 102°40'E 07°00'N
 108°00'E
 06°00'N
 103°05'E NORTHERN BDRY OF SOUTH CHINA SEA CORRIDOR
 06°00'N 06°00'N
 105°00'E 113°20'E


 5°N 5°N
 04°50'N AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY OF KUALA LUMPUR ACC
 103°44'E
 FL 150 FL 200 FIR
 03°40'N GND/SEA GND/SEA KOTA KINABALU
 103°40'E

 02°36'N 02°33'N
 104°45'E 105°00'E 02°00'N 02°15'N
 107°00'E 108°30'E
 01°13'N 01°17'N S OU
 SOU
 T 02°00'N
 TH C HERN BD
 103°30'E 103°36'E H INA R Y OF 108°30'E
 SEA
 01°20'N C O RRIDOR
 01°39'N 104°20'E 01°00'N
 102°10'E FIR 01°00'N
 SINGAPORE 108°30'E 108°54'E
 00°00' 00°15'N
 00°00' 00°00' 109°00'E
 104°46'E 105°10'E 108°00'E
 0° 0°
 00°00'
 109°00'E

 00°50'S
 FIR 106°00'E
 JAKARTA FIR
 UJUNG PANDANG
AIP AMDT 4/16




 ENR 2.1-7
 21 JUL 16
 95°E 100°E 105°E 110°E 115°E
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
 A I P Singapore ENR 2.1-9
 29 MAR 2018


 AIRSPACE DIVISION KUALA LUMPUR/SINGAPORE AREAS CONTROL CENTRES
 102°30' 103°00' E 103°30' 104°00' 104°30'

04° 04°




 3
00' 00'




 W53
 !
 KUANTAN TMA




 !
 VEPLI #
 TAXUL
 12 DUBSA

 
 #
 T6
 ! #
 Y349
 VKN 29 5
 L6 L6 3
 !




 T611




 !
 63
 Y332
 # BUVAL #UGPEK




 M7
03° 03°




 33
 # DOVOL
30' 3 30'
 53




 Y3
 W




 34
 
 M758 #
 VPK




 Y3
 # IDSEL # VISAT
 URIGO
 
  G582
 ADNUT EGOLO #
 M7 6
 Y344 35 1
 # MANIM




 71
 B4



 Y3




 M7
 69




 H
 KETOD
 84 Y336 #
 G5 # PADLI
 FL 360 # OTLON
 FL 145
 KILOT
 # RAXIM



 L6 4 2
03°
 # 03°




 N891
00' 00'
 
 LATUK Y3 4
 3
 90 DME PU
 90 DME PU
  VPT KIBOL !
 
 
 # #
 UKASA G334
 G334
 
 
 SAROX
 9 2
 N8
 # LENDA
 NIVAM !
 FIR
 #
 R3




 E
 B46




 KUALA LUMPUR
 #GEMAS
 25




02° 4 02°
 N88
 9




30' FL 360
 30'


 
 FL 120

 KUALA Y3 3 VMR
 9
 
 61
 LUMPUR REDUK DM
 E PU
 TMA
 B338




 B4
 66
 Y340 
  C
 GUPTA
 
 AROSO
 4
 A22




 Y3
 R2
 FL 300
 39
 B469




 MASBO
 
 5 500ft
 
 MESOG
 
 TO


02° 02°
 N891




00' 00'
 Y3




 SEC




 A45
 
 30 DME PU
  
 42




 7 
 30 DME VTK
 JOHOR TMA
 A4 SABKA  30
 G219




 64 D
 FIR
 A5
  
 AKOMA
 A
 76
  JR
 SINGAPORE
 M
 E




 VJB
 PU




 TOPOR W534
 F
 FL 245
 M6 ·
 D
 !! !
 !!!


 !




 2 000ft
 5
 !!!
 !




 !!!




 30 ARAMA
 # W6
 51
 G57




 REKOP # JB FL 245 KK
 9




01°
 2 000ft 01°
 
 35 DME ·
 SJ FL 245
 !! !
 J




 30'
 !!!


 !




 ·
 5
 !!!




30' W401 3 000ft

  
 !




 LELIB
 !!!
 ME S




 
 
 !! !




  B PU
 !!!


 !




 5
 J




 !!!
 !




 !!!




 N
 ES




 N W4
 P5




 01
 J
 50 D

 45 D M


 01

 ES




 FL 245 PIMOK
 # FL 245 VTK
 3 5 DM




 SUKRI 5 500ft MASNI A HOSBA
 FIR 3 000ft ## G580
 FL 245
 SEC BONSU
 #
 G5




 SINGAPORE
 TO
 012133N
 9 500ft ANBUS

 
 R 1#
 79




 1035928E
 07




 SJ
 W4




 M




 10 5 0 10 20 30 NM
 63
 B3
 P5




 G 579




 A4
 5




 L7 6
 01




 38




 2 64
 BOBAG
 #
 R469
 
 B4




  SHA
 70




 8 SJ
 #
 102°30' 103°00' E 103°30' 104°00' 104°30'

 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore CHANGES : Reprint. AIP AMDT 02/2018
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
 A I P Singapore
© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 FL 460
 FL 450




 LONGITUDINAL CROSS-SECTION OF SECTOR 1
 FL 400




 FL 350




 SJ-REKOP/ARAMA (50 DME SJ)
 FL 300




 FL 245 FL 250




 FL 200




 Responsibility of Singapore ACC FL 150




 9 500ft ALT 10 000ft ALT




 5 500ft ALT
 5 000ft ALT
 3 000ft ALT 4 000ft ALT
 3 000ft ALT
 2 000ft ALT
 1 000ft ALT
AIP AMDT 4/16




 0




 ENR 2.1-11A
 REKOP/ARAMA 45 DME SJ 35 DME SJ BONSU/MASNI SJ




 21 JUL 16
 (50 DME SJ) (15 DME SJ)
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 AIP Singapore
 LONGITUDINAL CROSS-SECTION OF G579
 Upper Limit FL 460




 FL 400




 FROM JB TO SJ
 FL 300




 FL 200




 11 000ft MNM FLT ALT
 Upper Limit 10 500ft ALT 10 000ft ALT

 7 000ft MNM FLT ALT LIGHT AIRCRAFT
 TRAINING AREA C
 Lower Limit 4 500ft ALT 5 000ft ALT
 3 000ft MNM FLT ALT 4 000ft ALT
 Lower Limit 2 000ft ALT 3 000ft ALT
 2 000ft ALT
 1 000ft ALT
AIP AMDT 4/16




 0




 ENR 2.1-11B
 JB LAPOL LEGOL SJ




 21 JUL 16
 (14.6 DME SJ) (8.4 DME SJ)
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 A I P Singapore
 FL 460
 FL 450




 LONGITUDINAL CROSS-SECTION OF SECTOR 2
 FL 400




 PU-SINGAPORE/LUMPUR FIR BOUNDARY
 FL 360
 FL 350




 FL 300
 FL 300




 FL 250 FL 245



 Responsibility of Singapore ACC
 FL 200




 FL 150 FL 145

 FL 120


 10 000ft ALT



 Lower Limit 6 500ft ALT
 5 000ft ALT 5 500ft ALT
 4 000ft ALT
 3 000ft ALT Lower Limit 3 000ft ALT
 2 000ft ALT 2 000ft ALT
 1 000ft ALT
AIP AMDT 4/16




 0




 ENR 2.1-13
 PU AKOMA 30 DME PU 61 DME PU 90 DME PU FIR BDRY




 21 JUL 16
 (20 DME PU)
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
 95°E 100°E 105°E 110°E 115°E 120°E




 1
 B59
 MEOVA # #
 # LSO R474
 #
 A599 A1
 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 AIP Singapore
 R4 #OSIKA
 TAIPEI FIR
 ADIZ #BIDRU 7 1
 63 1 8
 # B4 Hong Kong  G5




 1
 




 9
 B465 #
 HANOI GUANGZHOU FIR
 ELATO




 B5
 NAKHA
 #TEBAK G581
 # G86 # HCN
 FIR




 2
 #




 A58




 6
 MDY




 B4




 ATS ROUTE STRUCTURE WITHIN SINGAPORE & ADJACENT FIRs
 B465 DIB R59
 W21 Hanoi A4 6




 1
 B214 # 
 #  61
 B214 # 4
 #
 MC R47 #VPH KAPLI#
 # MEVIN R59




 Q3
 AKSAG BQ
 LADON # #
 # LAPON ##UPVAN # #SIKOU KABAM POTIB 6




 1
 1/A
 # NOBOK




 A5
 CBI
 NAH #SAMAS 92




 L642
 8
 5 #

 R2
 LAVOS #
 B46




 8




 M646
 #PONUK #




 M771
 6




 P90
 8




 3
 B4
 0
 N


 7
 CTR BALOV#
 20°N # NOMAN 20°N




 Q1
 # LPB # A20 M




 Q2
 6 501
 B463




 HONG KONG FIR




 /W
 BIVIM# ABVAR
 G




 1




 2
 02




 8
 # NALAO # MIKIN
 46




 6
 R2
 15
 MAREL




 1
 NOHET # #



 A5




 B4
 A2
 3




 W10
 R2




 1
 L5 #
 25




 5
 #IDOSI SABNO# MUMOT#
 SANYA FIR
 07




 B218
 
  L6




 4




 Q4
 KADIM
 R2 R335




 7
 Chiang Mai 0 # IKELA M




 R4
 7 #ALPHA IDOTA VIN #BUVAN # HATIN # ALDIS # 501




 82
 # #
 #ASSAD DULOP




 A5
 #
 P6 
  Vientiane A1 AVMUP#
 LAO#




 B329
 46 # #XONUS EPKAL M501
 # # MAVRA




 W
 N8 BOMAS
 A46 # NIVEN A4 SKATE




 2
 95 A581 #TATEL UDN VILAO# DONGI Q5 ASOBA 61 BEDIP#
 BGO # # # LENKO IGNIS # #
 4
 #
 G47
 2
 
 



 B346
 #HAMIN # DOSUT#
 G473 MAKAS # #
 Yangon BUNTA# SARSI




 B462
 CMP




 R4
 PATHEIN # # KONCO EGEMU 2 SAN#
 SAV
 # VIENTAINE R328 # 89 #




 Q1
 # ITBAM




 7
 # A1
 #ARATO




 0
 N #AKOTA
 G4




 /W
 HUE 1
 P90
 BANGKOK FIR
 P6 73 # FIR 7




 2
 ROT#




 0
 46 9




 4
 5




 9
 1
 # OKENA PATNO # R




 L6
 # DAN




 A5
 KAMKO R4 PAPRA #ATBUD
 L52 70
 MANILA FIR




 M64
 4 LUDVI 60 202
 #
 NOBER B4 BUTRA




 W1
 # # L50 A # EXOTO MIGUG
 #CAB
 4




 G221
 W1
 #




 5




 6
 M754
 POXEM 7 # PAK #
 7




 7
 #BETNO RAMEI #




 1
 L301 M5 # #PASAT UBL #




 R5
 R4


 15°N KRT 15°N




 77
 06 G4
 63 #NUNLI B2
 M6




 # G467




 M
 02




 Q1
 / MONBO
 NURDA P64 1 1
 M
 




 Q6
 A DONDA # Manila JOM
 #
 2




 77 6 2/
 W BIDEM RULOK L628
 6




 BOMPA # IBOBI
 0 # PUMOR 0 # GUKUM
 A2
 ## L301 # SELKA # LEKOB # PK # DABGI #


 R345
 G474
 # ##MUNGA# L628 # #MESOXARESI##EMPUL
 ANINA # 65
 DWI #
 TANEK
 M502 
  Bangkok #MENAM ##
 VIBUN LAVAN
 VEPAM
 #DAMEL M7 #LIP
 2
 # GONLY# PCA REKEL 4
 6 88




 Q7
 P7 B204
 PHNOM PENH FIR
 # AKATO GOMES # N
CHANGES : ATS Route L507 revised.




 #
 M502
 DALER #
 POLAK # #
 LALIT
 N




 SADAS
 B4
 HO CHI MINH FIR
 M50
 A464/M751/M757W19




 B205 #BOKAK LEGED #
 89
 M6




 LALAT # SATON# 5 62
 YANGON FIR
 KARAN




 M 46
 R4
 1




 M772
 # VANKO RYN# A3 5 MULAD #




 5
 4 6 7 #NOBEN




 7
 0 8
 2




 R5




 M6
 2
 OPG
 # BMT #




 76
 8
 6




 #




 L6
 BUT 8 # 5
 M769




 5 MD# 1

 B329
 # LULDA # AKNAT R PATMA # Q # # #




 W7
 Y12
 Y8




 DOXAR MUGAN SAJ
 #DIPUN R33BISOR ##




 B4
 REGOS#
 # MIPAK #OBMOG BIDEG #DOVIN #CRA #DODUG




 7
 4
 N500 #




 1
 TOKON #




 3
 ATS Routes G331, L524 and M506 added.




  Phnom
  Penh AGSAM
 #




 77
 EKAVO#




 Q1
 # R46 LKH
 M90




 1
 G331
 FIR CHENNAI




 W
 15




 M
 PANDI#VAVUM
 3 N89




 KOH KONG
 #MIMUX #


 Q2
 8
 M75




 W3




 W N500




 B47
 L7 MENEX# 88 POPET # SAPEN AC
 R2




 # LULBU #
 4




 M755



 59 #ANOBO R5
 W17




 # TSN # # #DAMVO
 1




 1
 M




 3
 1




 2
 # ALDAS
 3




 # # AGSIS 67
 77




 ALUMO PTH 65
 75
 L51




 DADEM #
 A464




 #
 M757




 SIHANOUK 7 C 7
 0




 LOSON M
 P6




 M
 AC
 M




 #SIRAT #BENSA # # # KISAN 16
 #




 A461
 5




 # #RUTIT
 R3
 2




 # #W17 # W
 NH CC
 #MCT
 8




 3
 8




 OSOTA
 IKULA EMELA#
 MI
 NUMDI #MAPNO
 4




 L643/W9
 # ELSAS #SUDUN
 G45




 10°N A # LAMOK 10°N
 M5




 5 H
 L644
 TAVUN
 # # # RAN 7 PQ TUNPO CAN THO
 H I RE
 R5 LAXOR
 Y11




 PADET # UPNEP UDOSI
 O
 #
 IGREX# C
 1




 # # # PR
 KUALA
 SMU # ANHOA
 # HO GAP
 0




 # #BASIT DAGAG # SAMAP #
 2
 W




 W3
 SIN
 OSIXA
 M6




 LUMPUR
 #TONIK#XONAN #TENON
 23




 STN #
 L5




 #ALDIN
 5




 A5
 TEGID#
 2
 W3
 1




 7
 M755




 FIR
 MUBAN#
 6




 MOXON
 0




 3




 83
 #
 M644




 L6




 RECNO #
 N89




 EMRAN# 33# 8 CN VINIK#
 #AKMON SINGAPORE FIR #URKET #
 W 8 #




 M522
 5/
 M75




 R5 SUPIN




 8
 R57 R588




 7
 IDKUT SAPAM
 W1




 1




 SAMAK L645 # SUWAN# # #DUGON #SAMOG




 G5
 # L5MAPSO # # P627PUT
 1




 # #
 7




 # W RELIP NODIN
 32 TIKAL
 10 #RUSET W M #OSANU
 B46 14
 P6




 IGOGU DANDO
 77




 L649
 6 # LEKIR # DUKUN R3 # BIDAG#
 28




 N5 25 TRN
 ## 0 BITOD
 71
 27 #
 LAGOT # M
 #COT
 OBLEX
 W1




 IGARI #IPRIX
 ANOKO# P6 #ESPOB # DUDIS #MELAS #DAKIX




 M522
 Y9




 76
 B5




 Y10




 TIDAR
 HTY# 8
 9




 # PT # #ADS-B OUT EXCLUSIVE




 6
 7




 NILAM GIVAL ABTOK # #ZAM




 64
 2
 9
 Y3




 RIGTO# A33 # AIRSPACE




 54
 # P 1




 M77
 628 A34




 B4
 4 NTW
 NOPEK# SANOB # #MEKAR




 M
 ODONO TODAM #
 3




 ## AT OR ABOVE FL 290 PARLU




 M7
 #
 8




 2 7
 VAMPI Y33 VPL VAS#
 # GOLUD
 ## VENLI #
 92
 T611
 Q802




 MEMAK
 N89 M9




 # PADLO Y446
 # #ANSAXTOSOK# ## 7 KADAX # UPRON #
 
 A341 VSN
 N8




 
 42




 # VKB ASISU # # VIMAG
 5




 # DOTOK#
 B57




 1 04




 #
 L6




 2




 POVUS IKUKO#
 0 Kota Kinabalu
 84
 L6




 W546
 ISKUD
 BOSTI N5 7 46 #
 L644
 71




 76 47




 R59
 01




 N8
 DOGOG
 # M758#
 Q8
 9




 Y44
 71 M Y4 # #G LABUAN
 M7
 Q8




 27 # VPG#
 M753




 #VKR
 M7



 03




 ANIRU




 0
 6 #
 G466




 AROBO




 5
 BEDAX
 A46




 5°N P
 Y345




 TASEK # W4
 R32




 5°N
 P M759
 
 51/




  Brunei
 OLKIT LEDAM 4
 N5 57 IPDOL ESBUM # 1 IRMEN
 63 4 VKP ## # #DOLOX # # #
 5
 4




 LATIL
 W5




 ENREP
 R2 Y346




 BULVA
 # # GUNIP Y34
 #VIH #KEXOL # L517
 BOMPO #
 40




 #ELALO L635 #MABLI




 A4
 8 #
 A4




 7 M75 VMI # #TAWAU
 L642
 08




 TERIX
 #GULIB DARMU #KADMO #MAMOK
 T611 3




 M30 B4




 6
 M
 R3




 6




 29 2
 57




 0 66




 1
 # 80
 M7




 63 Y349 # L6 T61
 60
 2




 P570
 8




 0 R46 2 5
 5




 9
 46




 Medan  8 M758 G 4
  R461 7 46 G




 R223
 2




 # #IDSEL N 84 # # LUSMO
 G




 P756 VBA
 M6
 # G582 VPK
 8
 M77




 78
 #
 4
 PUGER#
 P6
 OKABU
 # 84 # N8




 G5
 MABIX M30 G5PADLI N8 RIZAN# # VBU
 AIP AMDT 02/2019




 0 N5 M76
 KOTA UJUNG
 6 7
 ## 3 #1
 #




 M
 #VKL Y339G344 VPT 5 KAMIN




 76
 G334
 KINABALU #AGSON PANDANG
 # MERIM MOZES BUNTO # #




 8
 JAKARTA FIR
 VMR
 # # SABIP
 FIR FIR
 SALAX# A4 BOBOB # AGOBA
 #
 646# ESPIT # VSI
 A224




 64




 28 FEB 2019
 L7
 #MOBLOT NIMIX
 5




 62 A5
 A5




 74
 # 76
 L62




 OKADA




 ENR 2.1-15
 L7 KAGAS ARAMA #VJB# PU
 
 8




 P57 
 5




 G580 #
 M522

 0 # SUKRI # # # HOSBA # # # # Kuching
 MIBEL ANBUS # SJ# TOMAN OBGET ATETI
 N633




 ASUNA # #
 #UPROB
 L8 469 BOBAG P # TPG M774 ANIPU
 # L504
 ISBIX 96 R 5 M OBDOS ARUPA#
 M7 28 01 63 ATPOM
 N6 5# L504
 8
 B33




 # 66 # PKU
 N5




 BALAB #
 4
 P6




 #
 02



 8




 95°E 100°E 105°E
 #PNK 110°E 115°E 120°E
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 2.2-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 2.2 OTHER REGULATED AIRSPACE
NIL (not applicable).




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-1
 02 MAR 2017



 ENR 3 ATS ROUTES


 ENR 3.1 ATS ROUTES

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
A224 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ JOHOR BAHRU 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 DVOR/DME (VJB)
 196° 45.3NM FL 460 6000 FT 10 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 016° 5500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 MERSING DVOR/DME 022318N 1035218E
 (VMR)
 (58 DME PU)




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2017
ENR 3.1-2 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
A457 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ JOHOR BAHRU 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 DVOR/DME (VJB)
 296° 25.0NM FL 460 5000 FT 20 Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 116° 4500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ SABKA 015051N 1031713E
 296° 27.1NM FL 460 5000 FT 20 Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 116° 4500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ MASBO 020248N 1025251E
Route Remarks:
Flight Planning:
Northbound flights landing at WMKK and WMSA are to flight plan via A457.
Tolerances of airway infringe WMD222 ASAHAN (activated by NOTAM)
– Military activities




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-3
 28 FEB 2019

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
A464 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ ARAMA 013654N 1030712E
 (50 DME SJ)
 (Delegated airspace
 BDRY)
 117° 14.9NM FL 460 5500 FT 10 Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 297° 3500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ 35DME 012954N 1032024E
 118° 5.0NM FL 460 5500 FT 10 Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 298° 3000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ LELIB 012729N 1032450E
 117° 14.6NM FL 460 5500 FT 10 Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 297° 3000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ MASNI 012037N 1033746E
 (FIR BDRY)
 118° 15.3NM FL 460 5500 FT 10 Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 298° 3000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ SINJON DVOR/DME 011319N 1035120E
 (SJ)
 114° 44.0NM FL 460 6000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 294° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (3) (4)

▲ TANJUNG PINANG 005413N 1043052E
 VOR/DME (TPG)
Route Remarks:
Flight Planning:
Default STAR for FLT landing at WSSS shall be ARAMA 1A or ARAMA 1B. When traffic permits, ATC will offer LELIB 3B for WSSS RWY 20.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P133.25 MHz S128.1 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) 5NM either side of track to SJ Singapore ACC FREQ: P133.25MHz S135.8MHz
(3) within the lateral limits of the OCA. 15min longitudinal separation minima will apply in OCA A464/A576.
(4) Eastbound aircraft to reach 6,000ft ALT when 25NM SE of SJ.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2019
ENR 3.1-4 AIP Singapore
10 NOV 2016

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
A576 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ REKOP 013306N 1030521E
 (50 DME SJ)
 (delegated airspace
 BDRY)
 112° 16.1NM FL 460 7000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 292° 6500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ PIMOK 012648N 1032008E
 113° 18.6NM FL 460 7000 FT Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 293° 6500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ BONSU 011928N 1033710E
 (FIR BDRY)
 113° 15.4NM FL 460 7000 FT Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 293° 6500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ SINJON DVOR/DME 011319N 1035120E
 (SJ)
Route Remarks:
15 min longitudinal separation.

RMK: AVBL for southbound FLT only BTN PIMOK and SJ DVOR/DME.

Southbound FLT landing at WSSS are to flight plan via ATS Route A464.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P133.25MHz S135.8MHz (westbound)
P134.4MHz S128.1MHz (southbound)

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) 5NM either side of a rhumb line joining MDN and SJ, funnelling out at 7.5° to a width of 15NM either side of track.




AIP AMDT 06/2016 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-5
 12 NOV 2015

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
B338 Route availability:
 (1) H24
 MERSING DVOR/DME 022318N 1035218E
 (VMR)
 171° 38.1NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 351° 3500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ 20DME 014530N 1035812E
 (20 DME PU)
 171° 20.7NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 351° 3500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
▲ TEKONG DVOR/DME 012455N 1040120E (3)

 (VTK)
 153° 39.8NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 333° 3500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ IDMAS (40 DME VTK) 004900N 1041848E
 153° 56.1NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 333° 3500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 FIRJ4 000124S 1044405E (2)

 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR
 BDRY)
 152° 17.4NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 332° 3500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
▲ ANITO 001700S 1045200E
Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Not a REP
(3) Kuala Lumpur/Singapore FIR boundary approximately 1.2NM north of VTK.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 3.1-6 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
B466 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ JOHOR BAHRU 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 DVOR/DME (VJB)
 308° 34.3NM FL 460 5000 FT 20 Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 128° 4500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ MESOG 020103N 1031240E
Route Remarks:
Flight Planning
Flight planning not permitted between VJB and GEMAS.




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-7
 05 DEC 2019

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
B469 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ PEKAN DVOR/DME 032259N 1032524E (4)

 (VPK)
 335° 14.9NM FL 460 8000 FT 10 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 155° 7500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ PADLI 030918N 1033133E
 335° 17.1NM FL 460 8000 FT 10 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 155° 7500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
▲ 90DME 025341N 1033836E
 (90 DME PU)
 335° 11.0NM FL 460 8000 FT 10 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 155° 7500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
▲ BIKTA 024337N 1034308E
 335° 22.2NM FL 460 8000 FT 10 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 155° 7500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 MERSING DVOR/DME 022318N 1035218E
 (VMR)
 (58 DME PU)
 356° 27.9NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 176° 3000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ 30DME 015520N 1035405E
 (30 DME PU)
 356° 9.9NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 176° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ AKOMA 014522N 1035443E
 (20 DME PU)
 356° 10.0NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 176° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ 10DME 013523N 1035522E
 (10 DME PU)
 356° 10.0NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 176° GND Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ PAPA UNIFORM 012523.99N 1035559.74E (5)

 DVOR/DME (PU)
 201° 12.9NM FL 460 4000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 021° 3000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (3)

▲ SINJON DVOR/DME 011319N 1035120E
 (SJ)
 157° 30.2NM FL 460 4000 FT 10 Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 337° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ BAVAL 004518N 1040242E
 (30 DME SJ)
 159° 61.7NM FL 460 5000 FT 10 Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 339° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
∆ FIRJ1 001230S 1042424E
 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR
 BDRY)
 148° 19.4NM FL 460 5000 FT 10 Odd(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 328° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
▲ SINGKEP NDB (NE) 002858.79S 1043433.57E
Route Remarks:
Flight Planning
Flights overflying Singapore to destinations beyond Jakarta FIR are to flight plan via B470 ANITO

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7MHz, S127.3MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Lateral Limits:
 The eastern and western airway sectors are enclosed by a line joining
 022830N 1035504E 015100N 1041436E 013542N 1041442E 012550N 1040109E
 to a point 5NM west of PU DVOR/DME and northwards to a point 5NM west of VMR DVOR/DME.
(3) Within the lateral limits of Paya Lebar CTR.
(4) Eastbound Flight (report FL and flight condition over North CTR boundary). Westbound Flight (report FL and flight condition over VPK).
(5) Kuala Lumpur/Singapore FIR BDRY APRX 0.5NM north of PU.


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2019
ENR 3.1-8 AIP Singapore
10 NOV 2016

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
B470 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ SINJON DVOR/DME 011319N 1035120E
 (SJ)
 145° 30.1NM FL 460 3000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 325° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ UDONI 004818N 1040806E
 (30 DME SJ)
 145° 60.9NM FL 460 5000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 325° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

 FIRJ2 000224S 1044205E (3)

 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR
 BDRY)
 145° 17.6NM FL 460 5000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 325° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ ANITO 001700S 1045200E
Route Remarks:
Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.4MHz S128.1MHz
Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Lateral Limits:
 The lateral limits of this airway commence from 5NM either side of a line joining SJ DVOR/DME to OI NDB funnelling out from the SJ DVOR/DME on a
 7½° tolerance to intersect the boundary of a similarly projected airway from OI NDB but on a 12° tolerance.
 One way routeing from Singapore to Soekarno-Hatta and to destinations beyond. Two-way routeing Singapore/Pangkal Pinang for flights below FL200.
(3) Not a REP.
 Reduced separation minima will be applied on B470 south of ANITO between RNAV-equipped aircraft using MNT.




AIP AMDT 06/2016 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-9
 12 NOV 2015

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
G219 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ NIVAM 023650N 1040228E
 180° 41.7NM FL 460 11000 FT Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 000° 10500 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ 30VTK 015454N 1040159E
 (30 DME VTK)
 181° 29.8NM FL 460 4000 FT Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 001° 3000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ TEKONG DVOR/DME 012455N 1040120E (3)

 (VTK)
Route Remarks:
Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz, S127.3 MHz
Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Lateral Limits:
 The eastern and western airway sectors are enclosed by a line joining
 023705N 1041200E
 015610N 1041200E
 015100N 1041442E
 012454N 1041442E
 012454N 1035620E
 023705N 1035729E
 023705N 1041200E.
(3) Singapore/Kuala Lumpur FIR boundary approximately 1.2NM north of VTK.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 3.1-10 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
G334 Route availability:
 (1) H24
∆ PULAU TIOMAN 025459N 1040639E
 VOR/DME (VPT)
 096° 21.6NM FL 285 FL 250 20 NM Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 276° FL 240
▲ KIBOL 025229N 1042805E
 (WMFC/WSJC FIR
 BDRY)
 097° 92.7NM FL 285 FL 250 20 NM Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 277° FL 240
▲ BUNTO 024008N 1055953E
 091° 175.9NM FL 285 FL 250 20 NM Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 271° FL 240
▲ KAMIN 023442N 1085536E
 (WSJC/WBFC FIR
 BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Tolerances of airway infringe WMD222 ASAHAN (activated by NOTAM – Military activities)

10 min longitudinal separation between RNAV-equipped aircraft applying Mach Number Technique.

15 min longitudinal separation between other aircraft.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz, S127.3 MHz

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover within the Singapore FIR.




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-11
 02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
G579 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ JOHOR BAHRU 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 DVOR/DME (VJB)
 343° 10.3NM FL 460 7000 FT 3 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 163° 6500 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
▲ JAYBEE NDB (JB) 012959.77N 1034241.82E (4)

 (Johor Bahru)
 332° 4.0NM FL 460 7000 FT 3 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 152° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 LAPOL 012622N 1034435E (5)

 333° 6.1NM FL 460 11000 FT 3 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 153° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 LEGOL 012053N 1034723E (5)

 333° 8.4NM FL 460 3000 FT 3 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 153° 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
▲ SINJON DVOR/DME 011319N 1035120E (3)

 (SJ)
 347° 30.2NM FL 460 4000 FT Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 - 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

∆ REMES 004342N 1035735E
 348° 27.7NM FL 460 5000 FT Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 - 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ REPOV 001623N 1040300E
 348° 32.8NM FL 460 5000 FT Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 - 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

 FIRJ3 001606S 1040918E (5)

 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR
 BDRY)
 346° 18.4NM FL 460 5000 FT Even(1) [Class A –ABV FL150
 - 2000 FT ALT Class B –BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ PARDI 003400S 1041300E
 (ABM NE)
Route Remarks:
Unidirectional route (Northbound) for flights from Jakarta FIR to Singapore FIR and beyond. Bi-directional route between Palembang and Singapore below
FL200.
Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Lateral Limits
 (PLB VOR/SJ DVOR/DME):
 The lateral limits commence from 5NM either side of line joining PLB VOR to SJ DVOR/DME funnelling out from PLB VOR on a 7.5° tolerance to intersect
 the boundary of an AWY similarly projected from SJ DVOR/DME on a 7.5° tolerance.
(3) All FLT between SJ and JB are to avoid at all times WSR38 which overlaps the eastern edge of the airway.
(4) Kuala Lumpur/Singapore FIR boundary is approximately 2NM south of JB.
(5) Not a REP




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2017
ENR 3.1-12 AIP Singapore
10 NOV 2016

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
G580 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ SINJON DVOR/DME 011319N 1035120E
 (SJ)
 079° 33.7NM FL 460 3000 FT 10 NM Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 259° 2000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ HOSBA 011948N 1042418E
 (R079/34 DME SJ)
 (R103/24 DME VTK)
 088° 83.1NM FL 460 7000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 268° 6500 FT ALT (2)

▲ TOMAN 012147N 1054717E
 088° 58.3NM FL 460 7000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 268° 6500 FT ALT (2)

▲ OBGET 012307N 1064531E
 088° 74.0NM FL 460 7000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 268° 6500 FT ALT (2)

▲ NIMIX 012452N 1075926E
 088° 30.6NM FL 460 7000 FT Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 268° 6500 FT ALT (2)

▲ ATETI 012540N 1083000E
 (FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
10 min longitudinal separation based on the availability of navigational aids which permit frequent determination of position and speed.

Portion of G580 within Singapore FIR between ATETI and 1080000E has been delegated to Kuching ACC for provision of ATS.

Kuching ACC FREQ:
134.5MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Lateral Limits:
 5 NM on the northern side of line joining HOSBA to ATETI funnelling out at an angle of 15° from HOSBA to 20 NM towards ATETI.
 20 NM on the southern side of line joining HOSBA to ATETI.
 P134.2 MHz, S133.35 MHz




AIP AMDT 06/2016 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-13
 19 JUL 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
R208 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ IGARI 065612N 1033506E
 197° 73.9NM FL 460 FL 250 20 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 017° FL 240
▲ IKUKO 054512N 1031324E
 (FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Portion of R208 within the Singapore FIR to be released to Lumpur ACC daily subject to coordination BTN Singapore ACC and Lumpur ACC. 15 min longitudinal
separation.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P127.3MHz, S123.7MHz

Lumpur ACC FREQ:
P132.6MHz




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2018
ENR 3.1-14 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
R325 Route availability:
 (1) H24
∆ REDUK 021957N 1030459E
 319° 52.9NM FL 460 6000 FT 8 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 139° 5500 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ JOHOR BAHRU 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 DVOR/DME (VJB)
Route Remarks:
Flight planning not permitted for northbound FLT departing from Singapore to airports beyond Kuala Lumpur operating above FL200.




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-15
 12 NOV 2015

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
R469 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ TAROS 004200N 1021607E
 (FIR BDRY)
 071° 56.7NM FL 460 10000 FT 8 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 251° 9500 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ ASUNA 005948N 1030954E
 (R252/44 DME SJ)
 082° 20.2NM FL 460 6000 FT 8 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 262° 5500 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
∆ BOBAG 010230N 1032954E
 (R243/24 DME SJ)
 082° 23.2NM FL 460 6000 FT 8 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 262° 5500 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ SAMKO 010529.5N 1035254.9E
 (R168/8 DME SJ)
Route Remarks:
15 min longitudinal separation.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P133.25MHz, S135.8MHz




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 3.1-16 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
W401 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ HOSBA 011948N 1042418E
 (R079/34 DME SJ)
 (R103/24 DME VTK)
 294° 27.4NM FL 245 7000 FT 5 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 114° 2000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ KONG KONG NDB 013117.76N 1035923.69E
 (KK)
 265° 9.7NM FL 245 3000 FT 3 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 085° 2000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
∆ ALFA 013033N 1034942E
 265° 7.0NM FL 245 6000 FT 3 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 085° 3000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ JAYBEE NDB (JB) 012959.77N 1034241.82E
 (Johor Bahru)
 262° 18.1NM FL 245 6000 FT 3 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 082° 3000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
∆ LELIB 012729N 1032450E
 261° 4.8NM FL 245 6000 FT 3 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 081° 3000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
∆ PIMOK 012648N 1032008E
Route Remarks:
Controlling Authority: Singapore ACC

Airspace below airway controlled by Johor Approach.




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-17
 12 NOV 2015

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
W407 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ TEKONG DVOR/DME 012455N 1040120E
 (VTK)
 203° 21.0NM FL 250 4000 FT 3 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 023° 3000 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ SAMKO 010529.5N 1035254.9E
 (8 DME SJ)




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 3.1-18 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
W534 Route availability:
 (1) H24
∆ TOPOR 014412N 1025330E
 275° 46.5NM FL 460 5000 FT 8 Odd(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 095° 4500 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ JOHOR BAHRU 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 DVOR/DME (VJB)




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.1-19
 02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Significant Point Coordinates Remarks
 Name
 {RNP Type} Track Dist NM (COP) Upper limit MNM FLT Lateral FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Lower limit ALT limits NM ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
W651 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ JOHOR BAHRU 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 DVOR/DME (VJB)
 294° 21.4NM FL 200 3000 FT 3 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A – ABV FL150
 114° 2500 FT ALT Class B – BLW FL150]
▲ KONG KONG NDB 013117.76N 1035923.69E
 (KK)




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2017
ENR 3.1-20 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

 Charts




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 AIP Singapore ENR 3.1/ATS Chart
 15 AUG 2019


 95°E 100°E R46
 AIR TRAFFIC
 105°E
 SYSTEM CHART 110°E 115°E
 8




 N
 




 89
 To  SATON
 
 LALIT




 1
  RYN To
 FIR M50




 A464/M751/W19
 LEGED
 Bh L7 BUT  B205 Ba 5 NITOM  a




 ng
 
 




 an
 il




 ei
 ub 59




 kse
 To
  ng
  nila
 PHNOM57PENH M50 5BMT an
 VANKO 5




 ng
 at




 ip
 LALAT
  ko Ma




 P 1 Ko
 NOBEN




 ap
 an Ja MULAD
 




 A
 M




 Ta
 k KARAN To




 To Pa
 uc




 To Bangkok




 OPG




 Ko
 es 0 M m R  To




 i/ J
 B329
 P1




 M6 ngon
 To




 42 RN ong
 Ph 8




 0
  FIR
 LULDA




 m
 hw 77 sh
 PIDEL BISOR
  MUGAN
 ANOKI
 TRT 
 RN  




 ng
 A




 pe
 PATMA
 To 8




 Fro
 e




 A5
 Ya




 To
 0 R5
 MD A




 26
 AKNAT 
 ar dp
 65




 H




 Ho
 YANGON




 i
 84




 Ta
 5 DOXAR
 M7




 83
 m
 ur
 Q1
 o
 mb 
  R3 BIDEG  N8




 Y8




 To
 Fro
 A
 8




 Y12
  R4




 10
 olo 62 3 




 N89
 DODUG 




 G45




 L6 A
 W7
 A34 68 
 C 4
 P7  DIPUN DOVIN




 25
 To




 P
 1
 A
 MIPAK 10




 L6
 REGOS CRA




 G331




 RN
 77
 0 
  P




 W1
 OBMOG TOKON




 1




 A
 RN




 92
 PPB NOMEP




 M
 EKAVO 
  KOH KONG  




 1 A
 M644
 W16  an
 LKH




 N8
 A AGSAM
 
 




 A
 PANDI
 ap




 M75
 15
 PNH




 Q2
 RN /J




 Q
 N500




 A
 VAVUM




 0
 GOKEX 
 75 R46 W ila




 M90




 P1
 P




 3
 R5 8 an A
 To




 10 POPET
 




 W3




 10
 MENEX




 1




 W7




 RN
 88  SAPEN  MIMUX M




 R2
 7




 W17
 IDAGA
 AS




 
   76




 P
 L7 APRIL  R5
 m




 4
 
  
   AC Fro




 RN
 13
 PTH LULBU
 DADEM DAMVO
 ALDAS
 O




 M755
 59 ANOBO 
  
  M




 R3
 M
  TSN
 PO




 SURIX AGSIS
 DIRAX
 




 77
  N500




 34




 53




 M772
 L51
 RN CPN
  10




 ila
 0




 A
 A




 W32




 M7
 P ALUMO SIHANOUK OSOTA P
 
 




 an
  




 M5
 M6
 P6




 5
 10
  RN
 FIR SIRAT BENSA  
 LOSON RUTIT




 M
 28




 




 10
 26
 NULBO
 16 
 KISAN




 RNP 10
 SUPOJ




 To
 CHENNAI




 34
 NUMDI BITIS




 M754
 EMELA 7 W 




 A464
  W1




 1
 TOSOV




 A
 PQ




 W




 A
 
  ELSAS
 




 8




 77
 TAVUN IKULA PADET
  




 R3
 G45
 MAPNO
    88 LATHA
 SUDUN




 M
 75 




 34
10°N 10°N
 R5 M A 65




 L644
 




 A
 R5 M7
 CAN THO




 25
 TUNPO
 RAN ANHOA 
 76   LAXOR




 0




 10
 PR




 L643 W9




 L6
 IGREX




 P1
 SORTO
  UPNEP




 Y11
 8




 0
 P1




 P
 BASIT SAMAP




 RN




 RN
   VALSI
 SMU
 OSIXA
 UDOSI
 




 RN
 ROBDA FIR 
 L5




 42
 2 DAGAG
 W3 PINUN
 10




 L6
 
  TENON




 M753
 P6




 W




 W2
 XONAN
 28 BANGKOK




 17




 A
 L51
 STN




 92




 10
 TONIK




 3
 37




 N8




 P
 5




 L6
 
  TEGID 
 




 RN
 RN L7 MUBAN
  




 M757
 W34
  P1 MINAT 59 MOXON




 5
 R3
 CONDA A
 




 L649
 CN




 W3
 0
 84
 AGEGA




 M755
 M769
 VINIK




 A
 25




 6
 N8




 M75
  FIR 




 64
 N89
 
 SUPIN
 33 RECNO




 A
 8
 To P6 NKS ADBOP
  
  10




 45




 M
 EMRAN
 KUALA LUMPUR
 D 28




 A
 5/W




 M644
 ub P
 88 FIR 10 RN




 G




 1
 R57
 ai




 1
 BIBAN




 M90
 RN
 P1 R5  AKMON RN
 P
 URKET
 N5 0 PUT  SUWAN
 HO CHI MINH 
 FIR
 SAPAM
 71   R588   
   SUMLA




 4
 
 SAMAK  L645 
  SAMOG
  65 A
 NODIN




 L644
 
 APASI 7 RELIP
 M7 A
 MANILA
 ADNEP
 62 W1 W3 7
 MAPSO TIKAL DUGON
 76
 IDKUT M
 P 4 2 76




 RNP 10
 M OSANU




 A464
 L51




 W1
 DUKUN 8
 FIR
 To RUSET
 C 0




 W1
 he B46 IGOGU R3  DANDO  BIDAG




 7
 nna
 6 25 SINGAPORE




 RNA
 9
 i LEKIR




 M522
 TRN OBLEX
  BITOD
  
 
  LAGOT




 M



 M6
 MELAS
 B5




 V5
 N5 DAKIX




 Y10
 ANOKO




 77




 4
 Y9
 P57 ESPOB 




 A
 71 UTHAI 
 
 79
 DUDIS




 M75
 27




 26
 IPRIX




 0
 GIVAL   
 4  
 
 
 P6
 HTY




 6
  




 64
 TIDAR
 




 72
 RN PT B IGARI
 P1
 NILAM P62  5 ADS-B OUT EXCLUSIVE AIRSPACE ENBAX




 M
  TAMOS 76 
 




 M7
 0 8 RIGTO 
 Y3




 L649
 ODONO M AT OR ABOVE FL 290
 NOPEK  RNP SANOB 
 A




 A
 KARMI 334
 NTW
 DUBAX
  TODAM
 38




 1 MEKAR DALAN    ABTOK  A a n ga




 R208
 0 m bo




 A N891
 B46 Y3  KADAX
  GOLUD
  VENLI M 
 PARLU To Za
 
 




 T611
  76




 Q802
 IGEBO  6




 A
 37
 A341
 VPL
 VAS




 A
 VAMPI




 42
 A
 MEMAK PASVA  VKB UPRON  8 VIMAG




 L6
 ANSAX
   
 TOSOK
  NORTHERN BOUNDARY OF SOUTH CHINA SEA CORRIDOR
 
 PADLO
 
 DOTOK TOMUD VSN 
 IKUMI ASISU Y446 
  ADLEX
   A341 
  
  
 A46
 
 BOSTI 
 To POVUS
 B IKUKO




 0
 an




 M753
 VJN AKMAR
 B5



 
 VIDIP




 P1
 g 10
 A457
 alo
 60




 AM
 A 4 ISKUD




 10
 4




 A 1
 OPOMO 
  




 L644
 79



 re P 4




 71




 Y44
  GUGIT
 




 A
 RN
 




 0
 A DOGOG




 A




 10 L A
  6 8 7 RN G
 FIR




 25
  W54 RUPOS




 P
 N5




 Q8
  N8 76 




 0 M7




 RN
 90
 BEDAX 
 ESBOB
 7 M758 




 6
    LABUAN
 BANDA ACEH UKIBA




 5
 M




 A
 VPG 




 M522
  1 FL 150




 Q8
 KOTA KINABALU




 A
 92
 4
 BETNU
 VKR 10 AROBO
 47 




 N8
 GND/SEA




 A
 27




 0




 P1
 To M TASEK P
 Y4
 R32




 3
 adu
 P6 RN ANIRU




 P
5°N 5°N




 RN
 rai




 RN
  W




 46
 LATIL
  GUNBO
    ESBUM
 IPDOL OLKIT
   LEDAM BRU  D80/VJN 
 
 5



 DOLOX



 G466
 8




 M759




 Y3
 46




 P5 ENREP A BOMPO ELPOX 441 IRMEN
 74 N8 A 
 A4




 iu s 
 G




 BULVA N5  M
 r it  63  GUNIP VIH
  75 
 VKP
 AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY OF KUALA LUMPUR ACC
 D50/BRU 
  76




 M7
 57




 au
 KEXOL




 T611
 NOPAT
 AGUPO
  VMI
 SAKMA  8 TAWAU




 A




 71
 M TERIX
  TMA BDRY
 




 51/
 GULIB 
 
 To GOTLA  TEPUS  
   L517 BUTAX
 ELALO
 




 M7
   L517 




 N891
 Y 
 




 3




 L642
 B4 347 DAMOG MABLI




 W5




 63
 ANSOM
 2 




 W53
 M30 
  MAMOK

 08
 66 
  A
 A46




 9 T61 2 A DARMU
  KADMO
 SUSAR
 0  9 FL 200




 M7
 To C 2




 40
 M N8
 R2
 olom
 VKN TAXULVEPLI L
 6 5 8 
 
 63 R A  L63 GND/SEA M75
 Y345
 bo
 4




 
   0
 R3




 0 46 DAKUS   Y349 MUMSO 58 0 UDERO
 46
 25




 P570 7 
 BUVAL
 
 DUBSA
 OPULA G
 
    10
  MDN  8 G
 PULIP MATSU VPK UGPEK ELGOR
   URIGOVISAT  M75
 MABAL
 R461 
 SUKAT BILIK
 
  G582  A 7 RNP 
 
  LUSMO 46
 VBA
 MABIX 
     ADNUT
  
 




 48
 P756 A LEBIN 6 M6




 R223
  OKABU PUGER GOBAS  ONAPO 7 SARVO




 P6
 To Male 584  Y336  OTLON
 IDSEL

 P756 N5 R46  AGOSA
 PIBOS
 
  G
 KETOD M VBU
 63 8 4 RIZAN
 1 KIMAT
  LATUK PADLI D90PU  KILOT LIPRO N8 A 
 74 B46
 
 L7  
 AMVIL ISTAN  
     M761 N A
 PEKDO M300
 INTOT
 
  G334 UKASA 9
 OMLIV 87 A 
  ALEMO
  VKL SAPAT SAROX
 VPT KIBOL
 G334  5 KAMIN A
  MERIM MOZES 
   SO U A
 BUNTO
 VERIN   OMBAP G334  G334
 R3




 DUMOK A
 DOLEM
 
  45 GEMAS VMR  T H  BOBOB PILAX
 
 B REDUK
 RUMID SO U E R N B D
 25




 L7  
   7 TH C SABIP W VSI AGSON
 
 62 BATAR   466 
 RY 44




 M522
 SALAX A5  VMK 
 AROSO
 COR HINA S OF
 R E  3
 76 GUPTA  IDOR A
 




 78
 L8 A MASBO
  
  OLSAM   M
 AGOBA




 A
 9




 5
 96 A 46 ESPIT 0 60




 M
 A5




 R57




 46




 L62




 G5
 0
 KAGAS OGAKO 4  7 P1 M6 761 58 G4




 76
 76 RN
 DOSIK TOPOR
 VJB  AKOMA
 85




  A G
 ARAMA 




 8
 0
 M RELAK
 




 P1
 REKOP  LELIB JB 
 KK OBLOT  OKADA 
  
   
 P57 A 10 NIMIX ATETI
  VKG
   




 RN
 PIMOK  RNP
 PU 
 N633




 74 0   
 
  G580
 L7
 VTK HOSBA
  G580  SALIL
G4 MIBEL L76 SUKRI   OBGET
 2 PAPSA 
 6 TOMAN
 2 BIRAS
  
 ANBUS SJ

 UPROB
 ASUNA
 SAMKO
 TI 
 TPG




 L644
 To ANIPU




 N8 A
 A
 C 9
 R46   IDMAS
 BOBAG




 To
 
 olo
 




 75
 mb TAROS REMES 
 M




 D
 o M774




 R223




 ar
 63




 72
 ARUPA 
 For complete information BAVAL 5 




 w
 




 48
 55
 O




 M7
  PKU OBDOS A CEAN




 in
 UDONI
  ISBIX
 
 see Area Chart P5 ATPOM A SURIG 




 P6
 R4
 REPOV
 0
 B33




 BALAB  1 M L504 IC
 C L504
 s  M 77 T A BAVUS AGUSI
 
 8




 it iu M7 63 4 GABUS 
 
 
 r 66 N628 33 5 
 
  
 N5




 0° au  A 0°
 M N6 
 
  KADAR A NUGRO LADOP
 02




 To ANITO R PNK
 ODIRU
  NA L504
  TAPIN V 
 
   OMEGA L504
 NE FIR
 10
 To Male N628  KIKOR
 
 PARDI
 B
 
 
  
 SURGA YUANA ROTAN
 UJUNG PANDANG




 G
 33  




 46
 N6 PADANG 
 




 4
 M7 WIDIA
 B4




 66 
 
  ELANG
 70




 JATAM LAWIB M7
 A




 74  OSUKA
 B46




 RUSMA
 LEGEND  A
 A
 G579


 9
 RN




  OBMAT M
 A
 A5




 D35/VKB 35 DME VKB 6  TRIBO
 P1




 A 35
 85




      




 
 
 
 0




 A
 Airway in which Mach Number Technique and RNAV
 M7
 FIR SAMSU KIBON
   SUGIK




 78
 JAKARTA
 are applied. (Refer to pages ENR 1.8-13 to 1.8-18)
         




 66 PKP
 L644




 G5
 AR TANUR 
 N6




 Inbound and Outbound flights exempted from reporting
 A




 A




 B TODAK L5
 aircraft observations at these points.
  11 NP 1 MASRI
         




 
 46




 48
 G461 PABIO 
 
 
  0




 P6




 M522
 PAGAI PKN
 RVSM SEPARATION AVAILABLE
 TPN 
 SINGAPORE FIR  PILEK   RAFIS LAMUD
 L8 PLB L8 AKULA 
 BTN FL 290 AND FL 410 (Inclusive) 96 95 
 A
 B470




 
 B46
 RNP




 M
 A




 POSOD 
 
 
 MIMIX 63 A
 5
 9




 
 10




 BOSLO
  M7
 From



 G5 N752




 74
 L764
 A




 L8
 A RNP




 A576




 97 BKL




 G4
 BORAS
 
 79




 L89




 3 DOMIL
 ius N63 RN TAVIP GURNI
 Melb




 6
 BIDAK To
 urit 
 S




 4
 5




 To P
 AMBOY De




 To
 Ma
 A




 FIR Ja 10 To np
 To k art
 karta




 D
 ourn




 Su
 10




 as
 KEVOK
 a L5
 To




 MELBOURNE




 en
 ra ar
 A5




 P6 arta
 Fro kar




 PIPOV 11 ba
 Ja




 Jak




 p
 To A215
 RN
 e




 ya
 85

 m ta




 as
 D
 To Ja




 SUMDI
 k




 IBALA arw
 48




 
 Ja


 P1
 art




 ar
 in
 To




 0
 a




 TOLIT BIKAL BUNIK
 95°E 100°E 105°E 110°E 115°E
 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore CHANGES : Pontianak, Pangkal Pinang, Palembang TMAs and Pontianak, Pangkal Pinang, Jambi, Palembang, Bengkulu, Medan CTRs updated.
 AIP AMDT 05/2019
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 3.2-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 3.2 UPPER ATS ROUTES
NIL (not applicable).




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-1
 07 DEC 2017


 ENR 3.3 AREA NAVIGATION (RNAV) ROUTES

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L504 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ OBDOS 002503N 1065551E
 126.9NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 145 (2)

 BAVUS 000000N 1090000E
 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining OBDOS to BAVUS.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.4 MHz
S128.1 MHz

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover within the Singapore FIR.

Flight Planning:
Flights overflying Singapore to destinations north of Kuala Lumpur and Subang are to flight plan via BAVUS L504 OBDOS M774 TPG A464 SJ G579 VJB Y342
AROSO Y339.

Flights overflying Singapore to land at Kuala Lumpur and Subang are to flight Plan via BAVUS L504 OBDOS M774 TPG A464 SJ G579 VJB A457.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-2 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L517 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ TERIX 041521N 1093456E (2)

 92.0NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240
▲ GULIB 041714N 1110633E (3)

 (WSJC/WBFC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining GULIB to TERIX.

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover within the Singapore FIR.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL
(3) VMI 269°
 173NM




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-3
 19 JUL 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L625 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ AKMON 081254N 1101306E (6)

(10) 035° 340.6NM FL 460 [Class A]
 - FL 135 (2) (3)

▲ LUSMO 033341N 1065534E (7)

(10) 027° 67.5NM FL 460 [Class A]
 - FL 135 (2) (3) (4)

▲ VERIN 023332N 1062425E (6)

(10) 027° 80.5NM FL 460 [Class A]
 - FL 245 (2) (5)

▲ TOMAN 012147N 1054717E (6)

Route Remarks:
Uni-directional for north-east bound flights from TOMAN to AKMON. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, FL320, FL350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels
available with prior approval.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Lateral Limits:
 10NM either side of line joining TOMAN to LUSMO and 25NM either side of the line joining LUSMO to AKMON.
(3) ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover within the Singapore FIR.
(4) Segment from VERIN to LUSMO use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(5) Segment from TOMAN to VERIN use:
 P134.2 MHz
 S133.35 MHz
(6) NIL
(7) VMR 069°
 196.3NM




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2018
ENR 3.3-4 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L629 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ DOLOX 044841N 1052247E
 43.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ NOPAT 042313N 1044756E
 52.2NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ VEPLI 035223N 1040542E
 27.2NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ BUVAL 033622N 1034341E
 (WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY)
 22.6NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ PEKAN DVOR/DME (VPK) 032259N 1032524E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VPK DVOR/DME to BUVAL and 25NM either side of line joining BUVAL to DOLOX.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-5
 12 NOV 2015

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L635 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ MABLI 041717N 1061247E
 59.9NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ SUSAR 035848N 1051547E
 31.6NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ DUBSA 034901N 1044540E
 39.7NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ UGPEK 033647N 1040752E
 19.4NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ DOVOL 033047N 1034923E
 (WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY)
 25.2NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ PEKAN DVOR/DME (VPK) 032259N 1032524E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VPK DVOR/DME to DOVOL and 25NM either side of the line joining DOVOL to MABLI

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 3.3-6 AIP Singapore
22 JUN 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L642 Route availability:
 (1) H24
 ESPOB 070000N 1053318E (7)

 (VVTS/WSJC FIR BDRY)
(10) 149.2NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (2) (3) (4)

▲ ENREP 045223N 1041442E (8)

(10) 60.4NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 135 (5)

▲ VEPLI 035223N 1040542E (9)

(10) 33.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 135 (5)

▲ EGOLO 031934N 1040047E (10)

 (WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY)
(10) 25.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 135 (6)

▲ ROBMO 025440N 1035700E (11)

(10) 31.6NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 135 (6)

▲ MERSING DVOR/DME (VMR) 022318N 1035218E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VMR DVOR/DME to EGOLO and 25NM either side of line joining EGOLO to ESPOB.

Bi-directional between VMR and ENREP.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C service is available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between ESPOB and ENREP) and not in the exclusive ADS-B
 airspace within Singapore FIR.
(3) Uni-directional for southbound flights from ESPOB to ENREP. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, FL320, FL350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels
 available with prior approval.
(4) Segment from ESPOB to ENREP use:
 P134.35MHz
 S133.6MHz
(5) Segment from ENREP to EGOLO use:
 P123.7 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(6) Segment from EGOLO to VMR use:
 P133.8 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(7) NIL
(8) VMR 008°
 150.0NM
(9) VMR 008°
 89.7NM
(10) VMR 008°
 56.6NM
(11) VMR 008°
 31.6NM




AIP AMDT 04/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-7
 10 OCT 2019

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L644 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ DUDIS 070000N 1064836E (7)

 (WSJC/VVTS FIR BDRY)
(10) 192° 165.8NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (2) (3)

▲ MABLI 041717N 1061247E (7)

(10) 169° 45.9NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (4)

▲ OPULA 033155N 1062118E (7)

(10) 169° 10.8NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (4)

▲ ONAPO 032116N 1062318E (7)

(10) 169° 26.4NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (4)

▲ OMLIV 025512N 1062812E (7)

(10) 169° 24.2NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (5)

▲ OMBAP 023116N 1063242E (7)

(10) 169° 30.7NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (5)

▲ OLSAM 020059N 1063824E (7)

(10) 169° 18.3NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (5)

▲ OBLOT 014256N 1064147E (7)

(10) 169° 20.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (5)

▲ OBGET 012307N 1064531E (7)

(10) 169° 107.2NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240 (6)

 KIKOR 002244S 1070524E (7)

 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining DUDIS to KIKOR.

Available only for flights departing from Hong Kong or north of Hong Kong to Jakarta.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C service is available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between DUDIS and MABLI) and not in the exclusive ADS-B
 airspace within Singapore FIR.
(3) Segment from DUDIS to MABLI use:
 P134.35 MHz
 S133.6 MHz
(4) Segment from MABLI to OMLIV use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(5) Segment from OMLIV to OBGET use:
 P134.2 MHz
 S133.35 MHz
(6) Segment from OBGET to KIKOR use:
 P134.4 MHz
 S128.1 MHz
(7) NIL




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2019
ENR 3.3-8 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L649 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ LAXOR 094937N 1144829E
 (WSJC/RPHI FIR BDRY)
(10) 98.0NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240
▲ URKET 081130N 1145000E (2)

 (WSJC/WBFC FIR BDRY)
(10) 62.0NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240
▲ DAKIX 070854N 1145054E (3)

 (WBFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits: 25NM either side of line joining DAKIX to LAXOR.

Available only for flights departing from Brunei (WBSB), Labuan (WBKL) and Miri (WBGR) to Hong Kong (VHHH) only.

No-PDC Flight Levels FL300 and FL380 applicable.

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover within the Singapore FIR.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL
(3) BRU 359°
 136NM




AIP AMDT 02/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-9
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
L762 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ ASUNA 005948N 1030954E (2)

(10) 66.2NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 9500 FT ALT
▲ MIBEL 012351N 1020816E (2)

 (WIIZ/WSJC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining ASUNA and MIBEL

Available only for aircraft departing or arriving at airports within Singapore FIR.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P133.25MHz
S135.8MHz

Flight Planning:
Westbound - Aircraft originating only from airports within Singapore FIR to Medan and destinations beyond Jakarta FIR.

Eastbound - Aircraft to destinations within Singapore FIR only.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-10 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M522 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ VINIK 083830N 1161348E (2)

 (WSJC/RPHI FIR BDRY)
 27.5NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A - ABV FL150
 FL 135 Class B - BLW FL150]
▲ NODIN 081100N 1161142E (2)

 (WSJC/WBFC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Portion of M522 within the Singapore FIR has been delegated to Kota Kinabalu ACC for provision of ATS

Kinabalu ACC FREQ:
126.1 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-11
 29 MAR 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M630 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ SUKRI 012306N 1025904E
(5) 37.3NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A - ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B - BLW FL150]
∆ BOBAG 010230N 1032954E (2)

(5) 61.3NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A - ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B - BLW FL150]
▲ TANJUNG PINANG 005413N 1043052E
 VOR/DME (TPG)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
11.5NM either side of line joining SUKRI to TPG.

Flight departing from aerodromes in Peninsular Malaysia and overflying WSJC are restricted to FL270 and above at waypoint SUKRI if the planned cruising level
is FL270 or higher.

Flight Planning:
Southbound flight planning permitted for flights from Kuala Lumpur and airports beyond which are overflying beyond Singapore. Flights landing at Singapore
Changi Airport to flight plan on A464.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P133.25 MHz
S135.8 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2018
ENR 3.3-12 AIP Singapore
19 JUL 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M635 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ TEKONG DVOR/DME (VTK) 012455N 1040120E (4)

 42.5NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A - ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B - BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ TANJUNG PINANG 005413N 1043052E
 VOR/DME (TPG)
 58.5NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A - ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B - BLW FL150]
 (3)

▲ ATPOM 002425N 1052114E
 93.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A - ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B - BLW FL150]
 (2)

 SURGA 003657S 1063119E
 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining VTK to SURGA.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.4 MHz
S128.1 MHz

Flight Planning:
Flights overflying Singapore to destinations north of Kuala Lumpur and Subang are to flight plan via SURGA M635 TPG A464 SJ G579 VJB Y342 AROSO
Y339.

Flights overflying Singapore to land at Kuala Lumpur and Subang are to flight plan via SURGA M635 TPG A464 SJ G579 VJB A457.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL
(3) TPG 120.5°
 58.5NM
(4) Kuala Lumpur / Singapore FIR boundary approximately 1.2NM north of VTK.




AIP AMDT 04/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-13
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M646 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ KAMIN 023442N 1085536E
 (WBFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 69.6NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ SABIP 020940N 1075044E
 26.1NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ ESPIT 020011N 1072624E
 47.9NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ OBLOT 014256N 1064147E
 58.5NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

▲ TOMAN 012147N 1054717E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of TOMAN to KAMIN.

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between SABIP and KAMIN) within the Singapore FIR.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.2 MHz
S133.35 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-14 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M753 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ IPRIX 070000N 1040755E
 (VVTS/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 127.2NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (2)

▲ ENREP 045223N 1041442E
Route Remarks:
Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.35 MHz
S133.6 MHz

ADS-C service is available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover and not in the exclusive ADS-B airspace within the Singapore FIR.

Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining ENREP to IPRIX.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-15
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M754 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ VINIK 083830N 1161348E
 (WSJC/RPHI FIR BDRY)
 37.9NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A–ABV FL150
 FL 135 Class B-BLW FL150]
 (2)

▲ SUMLA 080242N 1160054E
 (WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining SUMLA to VINIK.

Portion of M754 within the Singapore FIR has been delegated to Kinabalu ACC for provision of ATS.

Kinabalu ACC FREQ:
126.1 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) BRU 019°
 238.9NM




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-16 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M758 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ PEKAN DVOR/DME (VPK) 032259N 1032524E
 30.4NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (3)

▲ IDSEL 032432N 1035544E
 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 11.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ URIGO 032505N 1040647E
 24.8NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ VISAT 032620N 1043134E
 41.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ MABAL 032826N 1051236E
 35.7NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ ELGOR 033014N 1054818E
 67.4NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ LUSMO 033341N 1065534E
 164.6NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2)

 TERIX 041521N 1093456E
 140.5NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2) (5)

▲ OLKIT 045010N 1115118E
 (WSJC/WBFC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VPK DVOR/DME to IDSEL and 25NM either side of line joining IDSEL to OLKIT.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between LUSMO and OLKIT) within the Singapore
 FIR.
(3) Segment from VPK to IDSEL use:
 P123.7 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(4) Segment from IDSEL to LUSMO use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(5) VJN 255°
 258.0NM




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-17
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M761 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ PEKAN DVOR/DME (VPK) 032259N 1032524E
 46.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (3)

▲ KETOD 031042N 1040942E
 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 10.8NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ OTLON 030752N 1042006E
 21.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ KILOT 030217N 1044023E
 32.3NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (4)

▲ LIPRO 025342N 1051128E
 118.8NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (5)

▲ BOBOB 022206N 1070558E
 46.5NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (5)

▲ SABIP 020940N 1075044E
 40.8NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 240 (2) (5) (6)

▲ AGOBA 015840N 1083000E
 (WSJC/WBFC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VPK DVOR/DME to KETOD and 25NM either side of line joining KETOD to AGOBA.

Portion of M761 within Singapore FIR between AGOBA and 1080000E has been delegated to Kuching ACC for provision of ATS.

Kuching ACC FREQ:
134.5 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between SABIP and AGOBA) within the Singapore
 FIR.
(3) Segment from VPK to KETOD use:
 P123.7 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(4) Segment from KETOD to LIPRO use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(5) Segment from LIPRO to AGOBA use:
 P134.2 MHz
 S133.35 MHz
(6) VKG 285°
 112.7NM




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-18 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M763 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ ENREP 045223N 1041442E (2)

 70.3NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240
▲ TAXUL 035035N 1034037E (2)

 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 31.4NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240
▲ PEKAN DVOR/DME (VPK) 032259N 1032524E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VPK DVOR/DME to TAXUL and 25NM either side of line joining TAXUL to ENREP.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-19
 19 JUL 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M765 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ IGARI 065612N 1033506E
 53.3NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class B]
 FL 135 (2)

▲ VENLI 062848N 1024900E
 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VKB DVOR/DME to IGARI.

Portion of M765 within the Singapore FIR has been delegated to Lumpur ACC for provision of ATS.

Lumpur ACC FREQ:
132.6MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) VKB 058°
 88.8NM




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2018
ENR 3.3-20 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M767 Route availability:
 (1) H24
 TEGID 085656N 1155143E (2)

 (RPHI/WSJC FIR BDRY)
(10) 242.5NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 205
▲ TODAM 063138N 1123536E (2)

(10) 225.5NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 205
 TERIX 041521N 1093456E (2)

(10) 186.8NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 205
▲ BOBOB 022206N 1070558E (2)

(10) 99.0NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 205
▲ TOMAN 012147N 1054717E (2)

Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining TOMAN to TEGID.

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between TEGID and BOBOB) within the Singapore FIR.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.2 MHz
S133.35 MHz

Uni-directional for south-west bound flights from TEGID to TOMAN. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, FL320, FL350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels
available with prior approval.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-21
 19 JUL 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M768 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ AKMON 081254N 1101306E (2)

 96.9NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 135
 LAGOT 071632N 1113243E (2)

 76.9NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 135
▲ TODAM 063138N 1123536E (2)

 55.4NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 135
▲ ASISU 055906N 1132046E (3)

 (WSJC/WBFC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining ASISU to AKMON.

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover within the Singapore FIR.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL
(3) BRU 305°
 113.3NM




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2018
ENR 3.3-22 AIP Singapore
19 JUL 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M771 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ DUDIS 070000N 1064836E (7)

 (WSJC/VVTS FIR BDRY)
(10) 156.2NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (2) (3)

▲ DOLOX 044841N 1052247E (8)

(10) 42.5NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (4)

▲ DAMOG 041225N 1050014E (9)

(10) 27.5NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (4)

▲ DUBSA 034901N 1044540E (10)

(10) 26.6NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (5)

▲ VISAT 032620N 1043134E (11)

(10) 21.7NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (5)

▲ OTLON 030752N 1042006E (12)

(10) 5.4NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (5)

▲ RAXIM 030318N 1041713E (13)

 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
(10) 47.0NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (6)

▲ MERSING DVOR/DME (VMR) 022318N 1035218E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VMR DVOR/DME to RAXIM and 25NM either side of line joining RAXIM to DUDIS.

Uni-directional for north-east bound flights from VMR to DUDIS. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, FL320, FL350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels
available with prior approval.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C service is available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between DOLOX and DUDIS) and not in exclusive ADS-B airspace
 within the Singapore FIR.
(3) Segment from DUDIS to DOLOX use:
 P134.35 MHz
 S133.6 MHz
(4) Segment from DOLOX to DUBSA use:
 P123.7 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(5) Segment from DUBSA to RAXIM use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(6) Segment from RAXIM to VMR use:
 P133.8 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(7) NIL
(8) VMR 031°
 170.6NM
(9) VMR 031°
 128.1NM
(10) VMR 032°
 100.6NM
(11) VMR 032°
 74.0NM
(12) VMR 032°
 52.4NM
(13) VMR 032°
 47.0NM




AIP AMDT 04/2018 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-23
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M772 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ LAXOR 094937N 1144829E (2)

 (WSJC/RPHI FIR BDRY)
(10) 020° 147.5NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240
▲ BIDAG 073101N 1135544E (2)

(10) 020° 97.9NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 - FL 240
▲ ASISU 055906N 1132046E (3)

 (WBFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining ASISU to LAXOR.

Available only for flights departing from :
- WIII and WIHH to VHHH and airports in People’s Republic of China.
- WBGB, WBSB, WBGG, WBKL, WBGR and WBGS to VHHH only.

ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover within the Singapore FIR.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL
(3) BRU 305°
 113.3NM




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-24 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M774 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ TANJUNG PINANG 005413N 1043052E (2)

 VOR/DME (TPG)
 148.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A-ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B-BLW FL150]
▲ OBDOS 002503N 1065551E (3)

 57.5NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A-ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B-BLW FL150]
 KADAR 000647S 1074342E (2)

 (WSJC/WIIZ FIR BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining TPG to KADAR.

Route from OBDOS to KADAR is RNAV10.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.4 MHz
S128.1 MHz

Flight Planning:
Flights overflying Singapore to destinations north of Kuala Lumpur and Subang are to flight plan via KADAR M774 TPG A464 SJ G579 VJB Y342 AROSO Y339.

Flights overflying Singapore to land at Kuala Lumpur and Subang are to flight plan via KADAR M774 TPG A464 SJ G579 VJB A457.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL
(3) TPG 101.3°
 148.1NM




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-25
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
M904 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ TIDAR 065230.15N 1024959.82E
 (WSJC/VTBB FIR BDRY)
 20.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A
 6500 FT ALT (FL290 and ABV)]
 (2)

▲ ODONO 063613.82N 1030129.41E
 33.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A
 FL 145 (FL290 and ABV)]
 (2)

▲ UPRON 060903.41N 1032039.98E
 93.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A
 FL 245 (FL290 and ABV)]
 (2)

▲ ENREP 045223N 1041442E
Route Remarks:
Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.35 MHz
S133.6 MHz

ADS-C service is available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover and not in the exclusive ADS-B airspace within the Singapore FIR.

Lateral Limits: 25NM

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-26 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
N502 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ BOBAG 010230N 1032954E (2)

 (R243/24 DME SJ)
 335° 105.3NM FL 460 Even(1)
 - FL 275
▲ PARDI 003400S 1041300E (2)

Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM on the western side and 5NM on the eastern side of line joining BOBAG to PARDI.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.4 MHz
S128.1 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-27
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
N875 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ ENREP 045223N 1041442E (6)

 44.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (3)

▲ NOPAT 042313N 1044756E (6)

 16.3NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (3)

▲ DAMOG 041225N 1050014E (6)

 20.6NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (3)

▲ SUSAR 035848N 1051547E (6)

 21.8NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (4)

▲ MUMSO 034420N 1053213E (6)

 21.3NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (4)

▲ ELGOR 033014N 1054818E (6)

 23.6NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (4)

▲ LEBIN 031438N 1060604E (6)

 79.5NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (5)

▲ BOBOB 022206N 1070558E (6)

 29.9NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (5)

▲ ESPIT 020011N 1072624E (6)

 48.3NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (5)

▲ NIMIX 012452N 1075926E (6)

 72.4NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class B]
 FL 245 (2)

 ARUPA 003140N 1084846E (7)

Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
25NM either side of line joining ENREP to ARUPA.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between NIMIX and ARUPA) within the Singapore
 FIR.
(3) Segment from ENREP to SUSAR use:
 P123.7 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(4) Segment from SUSAR to LEBIN use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(5) Segment from LEBIN to NIMIX use:
 P134.2 MHz
 S133.35 MHz
(6) NIL
(7) PNK 316°
 49.6NM




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-28 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
N884 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ LAXOR 094937N 1144829E (5)

 (WSJC/RPHI FIR BDRY)
(10) 246.6NM FL 460 [Class A]
 6500 FT ALT (2)

 LAGOT 071632N 1113243E (5)

(10) 354.3NM FL 460 [Class A]
 6500 FT ALT (2)

▲ LUSMO 033341N 1065534E (6)

(10) 53.0NM FL 460 [Class A]
 6500 FT ALT (3)

▲ LEBIN 031438N 1060604E (7)

(10) 58.5NM FL 460 [Class A]
 6500 FT ALT (3)

▲ LIPRO 025342N 1051128E (8)

(10) 34.2NM FL 460 [Class A]
 6500 FT ALT (3)

▲ LENDA 024124N 1043932E (9)

 (WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY)
(10) 50.6NM FL 460 [Class A]
 6500 FT ALT (4)

▲ MERSING DVOR/DME (VMR) 022318N 1035218E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
5NM either side of line joining VMR DVOR/DME to LUSMO funnelling out at an angle of 5° from VMR to 25NM of either side of track. It then continues at this
width until LAXOR.

Uni-directional for east bound flights from VMR to LAXOR. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, FL320, FL350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels available
with prior approval.

Not available for flight planning between VMR and LUSMO. Flight Plan via TOMAN L625 LUSMO.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C and CPDLC services are available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between LUSMO and LAXOR) within the Singapore
 FIR.
(3) Segment from LUSMO to LENDA use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(4) Segment from LENDA to VMR use:
 P133.8 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(5) NIL
(6) VMR 069°
 196.3NM
(7) VMR 069°
 143.3NM
(8) VMR069°
 84.8NM
(9) VMR 069°
 50.6NM




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-29
 19 JUL 2018

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
N891 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ IGARI 065612N 1033506E (6)

 65.4NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (2)

▲ IKUMI 055338N 1035509E (6)

 64.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (2)

▲ ENREP 045223N 1041442E (7)

 75.5NM FL 460 Odd(1) Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (3)

▲ UGPEK 033647N 1040752E (8)

 11.7NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (3)

▲ URIGO 032505N 1040647E (9)

 10.6NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (3)

▲ MANIM 031431N 1040553E (10)

 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 2.6NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (4)

▲ OBDAB 031153N 1040538E (11)

 106.4NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 155 (4)

▲ PAPA UNIFORM DVOR/DME 012523.99N 1035559.74E (5)

 (PU)
Route Remarks:
ADS-C service is available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover and not in the exclusive ADS-B airspace within the Singapore FIR

Lateral Limits:
5NM either side of line joining PU DVOR/DME to ENREP funnelling out at an angle of 5° from PU to 25NM of either side of track. It then continues at this width
until WSJC/VVTS FIR BDRY.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Segment from IGARI to ENREP use:
 P134.35 MHz
 S133.6 MHz
(3) Segment from ENREP to MANIM use:
 P123.7 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(4) Segment from MANIM to PU use:
 P133.8 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(5) WSJC/WMFC FIR boundary approximately 0.4NM North of PU.
(6) NIL
(7) PU 005°
 206.8NM
(8) PU 005°
 131.3NM
(9) PU 005°
 119.6NM
(10) PU 005°
 109.0NM
(11) PU 005°
 106.4NM




© 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2018
ENR 3.3-30 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
N892 Route availability:
 (1) H24
 MELAS 070520N 1080911E
 (VVTS/WSJC FIR BDRY)
(10) 203.6NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (2) (3)

▲ MABLI 041717N 1061247E (6)

(10) 52.1NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (4)

▲ MUMSO 034420N 1053213E (7)

(10) 25.2NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (4)

▲ MABAL 032826N 1051236E (8)

(10) 41.4NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (4)

▲ KILOT 030217N 1044023E (9)

(10) 15.7NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (4)

▲ KIBOL 025229N 1042805E (10)

 WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY
(10) 28.1NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (5)

▲ PEKLA 023437N 1040618E (11)

(10) 18.0NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 135 (5)

▲ MERSING DVOR/DME (VMR) 022318N 1035218E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VMR DVOR/DME to KIBOL and 25NM either side of line joining KIBOL to MELAS.

Uni-directional for south-west bound flights from MELAS to VMR. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, FL320, FL350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels
available with prior approval.

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) ADS-C service is available to suitably equipped aircraft operating outside radar cover (between MELAS and MABLI) and not in the exclusive ADS-B
 airspace within the Singapore FIR.
(3) Segment from MELAS to MABLI use:
 P134.35 MHz
 S133.6 MHz
(4) Segment from MABLI to KIBOL use:
 P134.7 MHz
 S134.15 MHz
(5) Segment from KIBOL to VMR use:
 P133.8 MHz
 S127.3 MHz
(6) VMR 051°
 180.6NM
(7) VMR 051°
 128.4NM
(8) VMR 051°
 103.2NM
(9) VMR 051°
 61.8NM
(10) VMR 050°
 46.1NM
(11) VMR 051°
 18.0NM




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-31
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
P501 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ ARAMA 013654N 1030712E (6)

 (50DME SJ)
 (delegated airspace BDRY)
 146° 25.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A-ABV FL150
 - 9500 FT ALT Class B-BLW FL150]
 (2) (3)

▲ ANBUS 011556N 1032102E (6)

 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 146° 16.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A-ABV FL150
 - 9500 FT ALT Class B-BLW FL150]
 (2) (3)

▲ BOBAG 010230N 1032954E (6)

 (R243/24 DME SJ)
 133° 114.1NM FL 460 Odd(1) (4) (5)

 - FL 275
▲ ANITO 001700S 1045200E (6)

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) Lateral Limits:
 10NM on the western side and 5NM on the eastern side of line joining ARAMA to BOBAG.
(3) Singapore ACC FREQ:
 P133.25 MHz
 S135.8 MHz
(4) Lateral Limits:
 10NM on the western side and 5NM on the eastern side of line joining BOBAG to ANITO.
(5) Singapore ACC FREQ:
 P134.4 MHz
 S128.1 MHz
(6) NIL




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-32 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Q801 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ ESPOB (VVTS/WSJC FIR 070000N 1053318E
 BDRY)
 143.0NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ ESBUM 045210N 1042830E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
15NM either side of line joining ESPOB TO ESBUM.

Uni-directional for southbound flights from ESPOB to ESBUM. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, F320, F350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels available
with prior approval.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.35 MHz
S133.6 MHz




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-33
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Q802 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ IPRIX (VVTS/WSJC FIR 070000N 1040755E
 BDRY)
 130.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ ESBUM 045210N 1042830E
 39.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ ELALO 041240N 1043329E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
15NM either side of line joining IPRIX to ELALO

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.35 MHz
S133.6 MHz




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-34 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Q803 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ UPRON 060903.41N 1032039.98E
 87.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 240
▲ IPDOL 045111N 1035920E
 15.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ KEXOL 043930N 1040942E
 36.0NM FL 460 Odd(1) [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ ELALO 041240N 1043329E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
15NM either side of line joining UPRON to ELALO

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P134.35 MHz
S133.6 MHz




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-35
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
T611 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ IPRIX (VVTS/WSJC FIR 070000N 1040755E
 BDRY)
 128.0NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ IPDOL 045111N 1035920E
 86.0NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ IDSEL (WMFC/WSJC FIR 032432N 1035544E
 BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
15NM either side of line joining IDSEL to IPRIX.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-36 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
T612 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ DOLOX 044841N 1052247E
 121.0NM FL 460 [Class A]
 FL 200
▲ IDSEL (WMFC/WSJC FIR 032432N 1035544E
 BDRY)
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
15NM either side of line joining IDSEL to DOLOX.

Uni-directional for north-east bound flights from IDSEL to DOLOX. No PDC Flight Levels FL310, FL320, FL350, FL360, FL390, FL400 applicable. Other levels
available with prior approval.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.30 MHz




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-37
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Y332 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ TAXUL 035035N 1034037E (2)

 (WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY)
 192° 42.1NM FL 460 Even(1)
 - FL 245
▲ PADLI 030918N 1033133E (2)

Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining TAXUL to PADLI.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-38 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Y333 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ BUVAL 033622N 1034341E (2)

 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 024° 29.5NM FL 460 Odd(1)
 - FL 245
▲ PADLI 030918N 1033133E (2)

Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining PADLI to BUVAL.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-39
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Y334 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ DOVOL 033047N 1034923E (2)

 (WSJC/WMFC FIR BDRY)
 219° 27.8NM FL 460 Even(1)
 - FL 245
▲ PADLI 030918N 1033133E (2)

Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining DOVOL to PADLI.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-40 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Y335 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ IDSEL 032432N 1035544E
 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 057° 28.5NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1) (2)

 237° FL 245
▲ PADLI 030918N 1033133E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM on either side of line joining IDSEL to PADLI.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz

Point/Segment Remarks:
(2) NIL




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-41
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Y336 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ KETOD 031042N 1040942E
 (WMFC/WSJC FIR BDRY)
 087° 38.2NM FL 460 Even(1) Odd(1)
 267° FL 245
▲ PADLI 030918N 1033133E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM on either side of line joining KETOD to PADLI.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P123.7 MHz
S127.3 MHz




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
ENR 3.3-42 AIP Singapore
07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Y339 Route availability:
 (1) H24
∆ AKOMA 014522N 1035443E
 (20 DME PU)
(5) 38.3NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A-ABV FL150
 5500 FT ALT Class B-BLW FL150]
∆ AROSO 020846N 1032421E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
11.5NM either side of line joining AKOMA to AROSO.

Flight Planning
Flight planning permitted for flights departing from or overflying Singapore to destinations north of Kuala Lumpur and Subang airports.
Flight planning to operate at FL220 and below to flight plan on A457.

Singapore ACC FREQ:
P133.25 MHz
S135.8 MHz




AIP AMDT 07/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.3-43
 07 DEC 2017

 Route Designator [Route Usage Notes]
 {RNP Type}
 Significant Point Name Significant Point Remarks
 Coordinates
 {RNP Type} Initial Track Great Circle Upper limit FL series Controlling unit Frequency
 MAG Dist NM Lower limit ↓ ↑ {Airspace class} Remarks
 ↓
 ↑
 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Y342 Route availability:
 (1) H24
▲ JOHOR BAHRU DVOR/DME 013950.4N 1033939.2E
 (VJB)
(5) 32.6NM FL 460 Even(1) [Class A-ABV FL150
 4500 FT Class B-BLW FL150]
∆ AROSO 020846N 1032421E
Route Remarks:
Lateral Limits:
10NM either side of line joining VJB to AROSO.




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2017
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 3.4-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 3.4 HELICOPTER ROUTES

1 HELICOPTER OPERATIONS OVER SINGAPORE ISLAND

1.1 INTRODUCTION
1.1.1 The rapid building development in many parts of Singapore has made it necessary for helicopter operations to
 be more stringently regulated in order to enhance safety. All helicopter operators are required to adhere strictly
 to the following procedures.

1.2 RESTRICTED AREA -SINGLE-ENGINE HELICOPTER OPERATIONS RESTRICTED
1.2.1 Single-engine helicopters are restricted from operating over and within the city area enclosed in the triangle
 bounded by the following locations:

 a. South of Rochor River/Kallang River (011817N 1035205E);
 b. Shenton Way/Keppel Road (011623N 1035045E); and
 c. Scotts Road/Orchard Road (011818N 1034954E).

 Part of this triangle lies within the existing Restricted Area WSR38 (see charts ENR 3.4-5 and ENR 3.4-7).

1.3 ROUTEINGS
1.3.1 All helicopters must fly over water or use routes approved by the CAAS. There are two over-water and one
 over-land helicopter routes.

1.3.2 These helicopter routes are to be flown in VMC and in daylight hours. They could either be flown separately or
 in combination (see chart ENR 3.4-5).

1.4 OVER-WATER ROUTES
1.4.1 One of the two over-water routes is to the north of Singapore Island for helicopter flights into and out of Seletar
 Aerodrome. The other route is along the southern shore of Singapore. They are as described below.

1.4.1.1 Heli-Route Alpha

 This route covers the area from Johor Causeway eastbound over water along Selat Johor, following the coastline
 of Singapore Island via the northern contour of Pulau Ubin and along the eastern coastline, down to Bedok Jetty
 (011819N 1035632E) and vice versa. Within the vicinity of Changi Naval Base (CNB), transiting helicopters
 are to keep laterally clear by tracking along the following markers located about 1km from the Naval Base (see
 table below and diagram on page ENR 3.4-2).

 Markers Description Coordinates Remarks
 a) CHANGI BEACON 011909N 1040206E White lights, 3 flashes every 15 sec
 b) BUOY CNB-04 011844N 1040224E Yellow buoy, 3m above waterline
 Yellow lights, 1 flash every 2 sec
 c) BUOY CNB-03 011809N 1040224E Yellow buoy, 3m above waterline
 Yellow lights, 1 flash every 2 sec
 d) BUOY CNB-02 011806N 1040100E Yellow buoy, 3m above waterline
 Yellow lights, 1 flash every 2 sec
 e) BUOY CNB-01 011829N 1040059E Yellow buoy, 3m above waterline
 Yellow lights, 1 flash every 2 sec
 f) Singapore Armed Forces Yacht 011851N 1040058E Yellow lights, 3 lamp posts along jetty
 Club Jetty
 Note: Pilots are to adhere strictly to the above transit routes.


 Height: Minimum 200ft AMSL or as specified by the appropriate air traffic control authority.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
ENR 3.4-2 AIP Singapore
12 OCT 2017




1.4.1.2 Heli-Route Bravo

 Originates from Bedok Jetty (011819N 1035632E), following the coastline of Singapore Island via the southern
 tip and contour of Sentosa towards Tuas and vice versa.

 Height : Minimum 200ft AMSL or as specified by the appropriate air traffic control authority.

1.5 OVER-LAND ROUTE
1.5.1 The over-land transit route established to facilitate helicopter movements across the Singapore Island is as
 follows:

1.5.1.1 Heli-Route Charlie

 Originates from Johor Causeway, southbound to Murnane Reservoir (012104N1034710E) along the eastern
 side of Bukit Timah Expressway. From Murnane Reservoir to Pandan Reservoir (011855N1034436E) and vice
 versa. To avoid overflying built-up areas en-route by routing over open areas / nature reserve areas. Height:
 Minimum 1,500ft AMSL or as specified by the appropriate air traffic control authority.

1.6 CONDITIONS GOVERNING THE USE OF HELI-ROUTE CHARLIE
1.6.1 The over-land route is established based on evidence of ground features and is therefore subject to CAAS’s
 review. Approval to use the route is given with the following conditions:

 a. The operator is fully satisfied that the route can be flown within the flight capability of the helicopter and
 that there are adequate suitable emergency landing sites along the route when in use. It remains the
 responsibility of the operator to ensure that his pilots are familiar with the route and the conditions governing
 them.
 b. The route is to be flown in VMC and in daylight hours.
 c. Prior ATC clearance from the appropriate controlling authority must be obtained.




AIP AMDT 06/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore ENR 3.4-3
 28 FEB 2019

1.7 FLIGHTS OPERATING OUTSIDE THE ESTABLISHED ROUTEINGS
1.7.1 With the exception of an emergency situation, at all times, a helicopter shall not be operated within the Changi
 Control Zone or overland and outside of Heli-Route Charlie, unless prior permission has been obtained from the
 Director-General, CAAS.

1.7.2 While this requirement is not applicable for helicopter training flights operating within a designated aircraft
 training area (Light Aircraft Training Areas A, B or C), flight planning requirements per paragraphs 1.1.2 and
 1.1.3 in page ENR 1.10-1 remain applicable.

1.7.3 An application for permission can be submitted to caas_ats_ansp@caas.gov.sg. CAAS may ask for a flight
 inspection of the proposed route and / or areas of operation. The applicant shall provide the means and bear
 the cost of the flight inspection. Each case would be considered on its own merits and unless CAAS is satisfied
 that there are very good justifications, approval would normally not be given.

1.8 FLIGHT PLAN REQUIREMENTS
1.8.1 For Flight Plan requirements, refer to ENR 1.10 FLIGHT PLANNING.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2019
ENR 3.4-4 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

2 PROCEDURES FOR THE CONTROL OF HELICOPTER OPERATIONS AT SINGAPORE
 CHANGI AIRPORT

2.1 APPROACH AND DEPARTURE PROCEDURES
2.1.1 Before entering the Changi Control Zone, a helicopter pilot is to advise Singapore Tower of his direction of
 approach, distance from the airport, altitude and type of helicopter. Singapore Tower will pass to the pilot the
 runway in use, QNH (QFE on request), surface wind and direction and if necessary the position of the helicopter
 alighting area:

 Example: RWY 20R QNH 1008, Wind 020/7kt, light on the runway, Clear to make an approach or hold clear
 of the Control Zone until advised.

2.1.2 All alightings and take-offs are to be made in a north/south direction as determined by the prevailing wind. The
 approach from and the turn after take-off shall be made clear of all airport buildings, aprons and obstructions.
 Requests for approach into and take-offs from Singapore Changi Airport shall be made to Singapore Tower.

2.1.3 Helicopters intending to cross the Changi Control Zone must cross the runway immediately on receipt of clearance
 and cross at right angles to the runway. Helicopters would be cleared to cross the runway up to the time when
 a fixed wing aircraft has reached 4NM final approach and Singapore Tower has the landing aircraft in sight. If
 the weather condition is such that it is not expected that Singapore Tower can see the landing aircraft at 4NM
 final approach, crossing will only be cleared up to the time the landing aircraft reports leaving the SAMKO
 Holding Area or NYLON Holding Area inbound.

2.1.4 After take-off, the helicopter is to make a turn-off right or left as appropriate as soon as possible and proceed
 until well clear of the Changi Control Zone. On reaching the boundary of the zone, the pilot will report ‘clearing
 your zone’ and normal clearance will be given.

2.2 GROUND OR AIR TAXIING
2.2.1 After landing, the helicopter is required either to ground or air taxi via the taxiways into its allocated aircraft stand.

2.2.2 For take-offs, the helicopter will either ground or air taxi away from its aircraft stand and move out of the parking
 area via taxiways to the runway or helicopter area for take-off.

2.3 ALLOCATION OF AIRCRAFT STANDS
2.3.1 The allocation of aircraft stands for helicopters rests with the Apron Control Unit. In allocating aircraft stands
 the Duty Officer at the Apron Control Unit shall take into consideration the type of helicopter, stand occupancy
 time and the nature of the flight i.e. passenger carrying, training or for maintenance purposes.

2.3.2 Helicopter ferrying passengers will normally be allocated remote aircraft stands, i.e. stands without aerobridges.

2.4 RADIO FAILURE PROCEDURE
2.4.1 In the event of radio failure, the helicopter affected if on the ground shall not take-off

2.4.2 If radio failure occurs while in the air, alighting and taxiing clearances will be given by the Tower by the use of
 the appropriate light signals as described in page ENR 1.1-12, Appendix ‘A’.

2.5 NIGHT OPERATIONS BY HELICOPTERS
2.5.1 Helicopters that are required to operate into and out of Singapore Changi Airport at night shall land on the runway
 and ground taxi into its aircraft stand via the lighted taxiways.




 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 103°40'E 103°45'E 103°50'E 103°55'E 104°00'E 104°05'E
 © 2018 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 A I P Singapore
 FIR
 KUALA LUMPUR CTR
 SELETAR 'B'
 C 3 000ft ALT
 SELETAR TWR 01°
 ATZ 30'
 SEMBAWANG
 D 4 500ft ALT
 SEMBAWANG TWR ! ! !
 ! ! ! !
 ! !
 ! ! !

 JOHOR
 ! !
 !



 CTR 'B'
 ! ! !
 !


 CAUSEWAY
 ! !


 SEL
 !
 ! ! ! !
 !
 !

 AT
 ! !
 !




 HELICOPTER ROUTES IN VMC
 !
   
  
 !
 
 !
  
  
 !
    




 !
 
 !
   !  
 




 !
   
  




 !
 JO
 




 




 !
 




 
 




 




 




 




 !
 




  




 H
 




 
 




 !
 




 !
 




 




 OR
 




 !
 




 
 




  




 !
 200'
 




  




  
 




 !
 !

 SEMBAWANG
 HELI-ROUTE
 
 !
 
 !
  ! ! ! ! !




 
 !
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
 




 CHARLIE




 
 ! !
 




 ! !! ! !




 
 ! ! ! ! !

 01°

 1500'
 01°
 !
 !
 




 !




 
 25'




 
 25'
 
  




 !
 
 

 PULAU UBIN
 




 !
 
 




 




 




 !
 !
 SELETAR
 




 !
 




 
 




 




 !
 




 




 
 




 !
 
 




 




 !
 




 
 
 !




 
 




 ! !
 
 




 CTR 'A'
 




  




 
 




 ! !
 TENGAH UPPER PIERCE LOWER PIERCE




 !
 




 ! !
 




 RESERVOIR RESERVOIR
  




 WSR10 PASIR RIS HELI-ROUTE
 




 !
 !
 




 5 500ft ALT CTR PARK
 ALPHA




 !
 CHANGES : Reprint.




 ! !
 




 !
 ! !


 GND SELETAR 'A'
 




 !
 C 4 500ft ALT




 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
 012104N BISHAN
 
 




 PERM PAYA
 




 x
 
 




 1034710E PARK LEBAR
 BUKIT SELETAR TWR
 




 




 ATZ TIMAH
 




 




 SINGAPORE
 




 TENGAH WSR38
 




 WSP3




 200'
 D 3 000ft ALT CHANGI
 
 




 01°
 




 01° 750ft ALT 10 000ft ALT
 




 x
 




 




 !




 ! ! ! ! ! !
 20'
 




 20' TENGAH TWR GND
 GND
 




 0'
 TUAS
 
 
 




 0
 
 




 PERM PERM
 15
 




 PANDAN
 
 
  




 RESERVOIR ARK
 




 KALLANG ST P




 !
 !
 !


 C OA
 




 !
 




 !
 !




 ! ! ! !
 T
 ! ! ! !




 ! ! !
 BASIN
 ! ! !
 ! ! ! ! ! !
   




 EAS CTR
 




 !




 !
 WEST COAST Bedok Jetty
 !
 ! ! ! ! ! ! !


 CHANGI
  




 PARK
 C
 !




 WSP24 ! 3 000ft ALT
 20
 




 !
 800ft ALT
 0'




 SINGLE ENGINE SINGAPORE TWR
 
 




 
 

 GND/WATER
 
 HELICOPTER
 
 
 
 
  




 OPERATIONS
 ! PERM
 
 
 
 

 RESTRICTED
 
 

 
 
 
 
 MARINA
 
 SOUTH
 FIR
 

 HELI-ROUTE
 
 
 PARK
 

 01° 01°
 


 SINGAPORE
  




 

 BRAVO

 0'




 !
 15' 15'
 20




 N N
 SENTOSA
  




 WSD4
 AIP AMDT 06/2018




 FL160 LEGEND
 GND/WATER CTR
   




 2300-1100 PARKS
 D PAYA LEBAR (REF ENR 5.5-1 para 2.1.2)




 8 NOV 2018
 SUN/MON to FRI/SAT 3 000ft ALT




 ENR 3.4-5
 EXCEPT PAYA LEBAR TWR
 
 
 
 


 PUBLIC HOLIDAYS
  




 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

 103°40'E 103°45'E 103°50'E 103°55'E 104°00'E 104°05'E
 
 




 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
    
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
 103° 50' E 103° 51' E 103° 52' E
 © 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 A I P Singapore
 Bu
 ad




 kit
 Ro




 ad
 WSR38




 d




 r
 sa
 Roa




 Ro




 Be
 ALT 10 000ft




 n
 ad




 oo
 Or




 tts
 ch Tim
 Ro




 Sco
 GND




 ng
 ard ah




 RESTRICTED AREA-SINGLE-ENGINE HELICOPTER OPERATIONS RESTRICTED
 ra
 Singapore




 lan
 ad




 SSWAY




 Se
 Tanglin Marriot
 Ro




 Ja
 Hotel




 Cavenagh
 ard MT EMILY
 Orch Lucky



 ad




 ad
 PARK




 PRE
 Plaza Ro
 Ro
 Bo ad Merdeka




 Ro
 ul




 EX
 ev Bridge
 n
 The
 rso

 ar
 d Heren
 te



 y




 et
 Ro wa
 Pa




 re
 igh
 Mandarin
 ch




 et




 St
 Orchard Roa d H




 re
 Some d o a The Singapore
 01° r Ro Concourse 01°




 St
 rset R




 ge
 gie
 oad M Indoor
 18' Exete id




 id
 Road r Roa Pe dl Stadium
 18'




 n
 Sele




 Br
 d E b er R na e




 le
 N Grange ng er N




 oo
 d
 Geyla Riv




 nc




 Ro
 Roa ng
 d




 Be
 Ro The




 ad
 Ox
 Br ad Gateway
 Road
 as




 ler
 Tanjong Rhu




 ia
 CENTRAL
 Ba




 or
 sa




 Ris




 ct




 ll
 h




 co
 e
 Ro




 Vi




 h
 Valley




 Ni
 ac
 r ad
 Rive PARKWAY




 Be
 Sta Suntec City
 COAST
 Kim




 Raffles




 Avenue
 EAST
 Zion




 mf City Twr
 ord
 Fort Canning Ro
 adSwissotel Bridge
 Se




 Reservoir War
 Ro
 ng




 rth
 ad Memorial Pan




 No
 Pacific


 u
 Marina Hotel




 ad
 ea
 Mandarin
 Ro




 nc




 Ro
 Hotel The
 ad




 me

 City Hall Ritz-Carlton
 Ha Millenia
 velo
 Road
 Cle
 d




 ck Havelo
 Roa




 ck
 Road




 MARINA EAST




 Sing
 Tio
 ng
 Anderson
 Esplanade Bridge
 ad




 Ro Bayfront


 ad
 Bridge




 ap
 ad
 Ro




 Bridge
 Ro
 Merlion




 ore
 Bahru ee Riv
 er Park MARINA
 Road Sw The
 Fullerton MARINA RESERVOIR
 ge



 e



 PEARL's Hotel BAY
 dg
 Ou




 id
 in




 Br




 HILL
 Bri
 tram

 Ch




 01° 01°
 17' Clifford Pier SINGLE-ENGINE
 lt a




 17'
 Jala
 HELICOPTER
 De




 N n AY
 Ro N
 h




 ad
 SSW
 ut




 EXP
 RE OPERATIONS
 So




 RESTRICTED
 w




 Bu
 Ne




 kit
 d
 L




 oa
 A
 TR




 nR
 N




 AY
 AY
 CE




 ad




 ER
 so




 KW
 Me
 Ro




 bin




 rah
 ad




 R
 Neil
 Ro




 PA
 Ro S T
 COA
 Singapore
 CPF
 General Hospital
 EAS T
 Building
 Road




 Bahru Singapore
 Conference
 Hall
 ad
 Ro
 RA
 Delta




 JA




 n
AIP AMDT 4/16




 so




 MARINA SOUTH SCALE 1 : 25,000
 H




 An




 EXPRESSWAY 200 0 200 400 600 800 m
 ng
 er




 ENR 3.4-7
 21 JUL 16
 po
 ow




 m
 L




 Ka 1,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 ft


 103° 50' E 103° 51' E 103° 52' E
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 3.5-1
 02 MAR 2017


 ENR 3.5 OTHER ROUTES

1 SINJON CROSSING BY MILITARY AIRCRAFT

1.1 Introduction
1.1.1 In order to facilitate the movement of various types of military traffic operating through the Changi Control Zone
 without impeding the flow of procedural traffic operating into and out of the Zone, the following procedures have
 been established for strict compliance by pilots-in-command (refer to chart ENR 3.5-3).

1.2 Crossing by Slow-moving Military Aircraft (Slow-lane Crossings)
1.2.1 All slow-moving military aircraft are permitted to cross the Changi CTR 8.1NM and 6.7NM south of the extended
 centreline of RWY 02L and RWY 02C respectively. EASTBOUND and WESTBOUND flights at 500ft AMSL
 without reference to Singapore Tower or Singapore Approach.

1.2.2 The EASTBOUND is from PULAU AYER MERBAU (011600N 1034340E) on track of 110° MAG to the northern
 tip of Lazarus Island (SINJON). Thereafter, the track is 089° MAG to Point “E1” (10 DME SJ) and then direct
 to NEXUS [34 DME SJ R-077 (23 DME VTK R-100)] (012048N 1042424E).

1.2.3 The WESTBOUND is from NEXUS direct to Point “E1”. Thereafter, the track is 269° MAG to the northern tip
 of Lazarus Island (SINJON) and then 290°MAG until entering Tengah Aerodrome Traffic Zone.

1.3 Crossing by Fast-moving Military Aircraft (Fast-lane Crossings)
1.3.1 All fast-moving military aircraft are permitted to cross the Changi Control Zone 9.4NM and 8NM south of the
 extended centreline of RWY 02L and RWY 02C respectively. EASTBOUND flights are to operate at 1,000ft
 AMSL and WESTBOUND flights at 500ft AMSL without reference to Singapore Tower or Singapore Approach.

1.3.2 The EASTBOUND is from PULAU SAKRA (011545N 1034200E) on a track of 115° MAG to Pulau Bukom
 Kechil and then track 110° MAG to 1NM south of the southern tip of Lazarus Island (SINJON). Thereafter, the
 track is 089° MAG to Point “E” (011221N 1040121E) and then direct to SIERRA (011830N 1042600E).

1.3.3 The WESTBOUND is from Point “E” on the reciprocal of the eastbound track to PULAU SAKRA.

1.4 SINJON Crossings at 1,500 FT
1.4.1 Eastbound and Westbound military aircraft are permitted to cross Changi Control Zone via the Low Level track
 at 1,500ft without reference to Singapore Tower or Singapore Approach. The Low Level track is established
 from SIERRA to SJ DVOR via Point "E" and a point 0.5NM north of PULAU SAMBU (011045N 1035356E).
 Aircraft on the Low Level track are only allowed to maintain 1,500ft and below between SJ DVOR and PULAU
 SAMBU.

1.5 Operating Hours of SINJON Crossings
1.5.1 SINJON Crossings are applicable at all times of the day.




© 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2017
ENR 3.5-2 AIP Singapore
02 MAR 2017

1.6 Suspension of Unrestricted Military Crossings
1.6.1 In view of military traffic crossing the Changi CTR to the south, whenever it is known or has been made known
 that procedural or civil training traffic are unable for reasons of load or performance, etc., to effect a normal climb
 on RWY 20R/20C, the unrestricted crossings shall be suspended and the RSAF FIS Controller be informed
 immediately.

1.6.2 All aircraft departing on RWY 20R/20C on SID are required to cross 8 DME VTK at or above 2,000ft. If the
 height restriction cannot be complied with, the pilot-in-command of an aircraft departing on RWY 20R/20C shall
 inform ATC during the time when the aircraft commences taxiing to the holding point for departure.

1.7 Altimeter Setting
1.7.1 The Singapore QNH setting shall be used by military aircraft crossing the Changi CTR under the above
 procedures.

1.8 Emergency
1.8.1 In the event of an emergency occurring to a procedural aircraft in the area e.g. an engine cut on takeoff or landing
 etc., all unrestricted military crossings under these procedures shall be forthwith suspended. Such suspensions
 shall be notified immediately to the Duty RSAF FIS Controller, SATCC.

2 TRANSIT CHANNEL

2.1 Introduction
2.1.1 To ensure safety of aircraft operations and minimise interruptions to aircraft operating in Light Aircraft Training
 Area A, a transit channel is established for military traffic to transit through. The Transit Channel will be all the
 airspace within Area A north of Mandai Road.

2.2 Activation
2.2.1 The Transit Channel will be activated only when there is a military aircraft crossing. Activation will be initiated
 by Paya Lebar Approach. All aircraft operating within the area are advised to vacate the channel on receipt of
 the activation. Such aircraft shall report their intentions to Paya Lebar Approach.

2.2.2 To ensure safety of operation, all aircraft operating within the lateral and vertical limits of the channel shall notify
 Paya Lebar Approach.

2.3 Dimensions
2.3.1 The co-ordinates for the Channel are:

 012714N 1034752E 012442N 1034705E 012438N 1034556E 012650N 1034619E.
 (refer to chart ENR 3.5-3).

2.4 Vertical Limits
2.4.1 Ground level to 2,000ft.

3 HORSBURGH LIGHTHOUSE
3.1 Horsburgh Lighthouse (011949N 1042420E) is a visual reference point for VFR flights.

3.2 For the purpose of safe navigation, all VFR traffic in the vicinity of the Horsburgh Lighthouse shall exercise extra
 caution when approaching the area.

3.3 Vertical Limits: Ground/sea level to 2,000 feet for VFR flights.
 Note: Minimum flight altitude on ATS Route G580 above the Horsburgh Lighthouse is 3,000 feet.

3.4 The Singapore QNH shall be used by all aircraft in the vicinity of Horsburgh Lighthouse.



 ENR 5.2 MILITARY EXERCISE AND TRAINING AREAS

1. LIGHT AIRCRAFT TRAINING AREAS

1.1 The airspaces designated as Light Aircraft Training Areas are for Local Flying and Training purposes. Flights are to be
conducted during DAYLIGHT hours and in VMC ONLY. The Training Areas are uncontrolled airspaces. It will be the responsibility
of pilots to maintain adequate separation with other aircraft including those operating in the Seletar and Sembawang aerodrome
circuits. All aircraft are to operate strictly within the designated areas and not to stray out of the areas or intrude into adjacent
controlled airspaces.

1.2 Aerobatics and test flights are prohibited in Light Aircraft Training Areas A, B and C.

1.3 The provision of FIS is the responsibility of Paya Lebar Approach. However, due to the nature of training operations carried
out, position and altitude of aircraft will not be made available. The only information that can be provided to pilots will be the
number of REPORTED aircraft within the areas concerned.

1.4 On receipt of the relevant information, it shall be the responsibility of the pilot to decide whether his intended flight can be
carried out safely in view of the prevailing air traffic.

1.5 To enable Paya Lebar Approach to maintain an accurate record of aircraft operating in the areas and to disseminate
up-to-date information, all pilots must report entering and leaving the Training Areas to Paya Lebar Approach.

1.6 Pilots of all aircraft operating within the areas are required to keep a listening watch on the appropriate Paya Lebar Approach
VHF/RT control frequency 127.7 MHz.

1.7 All flights in the Training Areas are to be conducted on Singapore QNH. This value can be obtained from Paya Lebar
Approach.

1.8 In the interest of flight safety, aircraft operating in Light Aircraft Training Area A are advised to make a broadcast on the
controlling frequency specifying their callsign and position when climbing or descending through 2,000ft.

LOW FLYING OPERATIONS
Helicopter Operations All aircraft intending to operate within this area are
 to contact Natuna Radio on 9025KHz, 122.1MHz
Extensive low flying operations mainly by helicopter or 118.1MHz for traffic information.
operate during daylight hours within the 5 000ft ALT
Natuna/Anambas Groups of Islands in the area of GND/SEA
the South China Sea Corridor between the
longitudes 105°E and 110°E and the Indonesian
Mainland.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2019
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 5.3-1
 26 MAR 2020


 ENR 5.3 OTHER ACTIVITIES OF A DANGEROUS NATURE AND OTHER
 POTENTIAL HAZARD

1 OTHER ACTIVITIES OF DANGEROUS NATURE
1.1 Weather Balloons

1.1.1 Balloons will be released for MET observation at the Centre for Climate Research Singapore, Upper Air
 Observatory (012025N 1035317E).

1.1.2 At Upper Air Observatory, balloons will be released daily at 2330UTC and 1040UTC. Cut-off timings for the
 release are at 0030UTC and 1230UTC respectively.

 Rate of ascent of balloon: 320m per minute.
 Maximum height of balloon: 115 000ft (35 000m).
 Colour of balloon: uncoloured.
 Diameter of balloon: 162cm.

 The balloon is attached with radiosonde equipment.
 Weight of radiosonde equipment: 130g.
 Payload (radiosonde plus parachute): 170g.
 Size of radiosonde equipment: 145mm x 63mm x 46mm.

 The balloon will burst 1.5 to 2 hours after release and radiosonde equipment will descend within 60NM radius.

1.1.3 At Upper Air Observatory, a balloon will be released between 2330UTC and 0030UTC on either the 3 or 4
 rd th

 week of the month.

 Rate of ascent of balloon: 320m per minute.
 Maximum height of balloon: 115 000ft (35 000m).
 Colour of balloon: uncoloured.
 Diameter of balloon: 191cm.

 The balloon is attached with ozonesonde/radiosonde equipment and parachute.
 Payload (ozonesonde/radiosonde equipment with parachute): 910g.
 Size of ozonesonde equipment box: 191mm x 191mm x 254mm.
 Size of radiosonde equipment: 145mm x 63mm x 46mm.

 The balloon will burst 1.5 to 2 hours after release. Equipment will descend within 60NM radius.

2 OTHER POTENTIAL HAZARDS
 NIL




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2020
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 5.4-1
 12 NOV 2015


 ENR 5.4 AIR NAVIGATION OBSTACLES - AREA 1
(Height 100m AGL or higher)

 OBST ID or ELEV/HGT OBST LGT
 designation OBST type OBST position (M) Type/Colour Remarks
 Under development




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore ENR 5.5-1
 03 JAN 2019


 ENR 5.5 AERIAL SPORTING AND RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES

1 AERO MODELLING AND KITE FLYING

1.1 General Warning
1.1.1 Pilots flying at low altitudes should watch out for possible hazards such as model aircraft and kites, especially
 when flying near parks and open ground.

1.1.2 The location of some of the parks in Singapore where kite and aero model flying may occur are shown in chart
 ENR 3.4-5. Pilots should note that chart ENR 3.4-5 does not show all the parks in Singapore and that hazards
 such as kite flying and aero model flying may take place at parks and open ground not indicated in chart ENR
 3.4-5.

1.1.3 According to the Singapore Air Navigation Order, kite flying and aero model flying are not permitted above 200ft
 or within 5km of an aerodrome. However, pilots are advised to look out for such hazards at all times as members
 of the public may inadvertently fly kites or aero models above the height of 200ft or within 5km of an aerodrome.

2 AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS PROHIBITED OVER THE TERRITORY OF SINGAPORE
2.1 Owing to the high concentration of built-up areas, severe airspace limitations and intense low flying aircraft
 operations, flights by the following aircraft types are prohibited over the territory of Singapore: Aircraft principally
 designed for the purpose of sports or recreation, commonly referred to as home-built, ultralight, microlight,
 hang-glider and such others,even though they may have a valid Certificate of Registration or a Certificate of
 Airworthiness.

3 SEARCHLIGHT DISPLAY / LASER SHOWS - PAYA LEBAR CTR
3.1 BTN 1200-1215 and 1330-1345 daily searchlight display and laser shows will take place at 011658N 1035138E
 (within Paya Lebar CTR). Additional show time will be BTN 1500-1515 on FRI and SAT. Danger Height UNL.

4 UNMANNED AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS - PAYA LEBAR CTR
4.1 Unmanned aircraft operations may take place up to 200ft AMSL at Paya Lebar CTR and within the following
 coordinates: 011828.092N 1034706.884E, 011831.855N 1034726.944E, 011734.453N 1034758.093E,
 011720.214N 1034727.096E, 011754.341N 1034657.173E.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 01/2019
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
 AIP Singapore ENR 5.6-1
 eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831 21 MAY 2020


 ENR 5.6 BIRD MIGRATION

 1 BIRD MIGRATION
  1.1 Bird migrations generally occur between September and March. Migratory birds come from as far away as North
 and Central Asia.

 2 REPORTING OF WILDLIFE STRIKE
 2.1 To facilitate efforts to reduce wildlife hazards at and around Singapore airports, pilots and aircraft engineers
 are requested to report all wildlife strikes to Air Traffic Control.

 2.2 To facilitate the reporting of wildlife strikes, pilots may report them at the earliest opportunity via RTF to Air
 Traffic Control.

 The RTF phraseology should include the following:

 - Aircraft Callsign
 - The phrase “WILDLIFE STRIKE REPORT”
 - Altitude
 - Approximate geographical location
 - Time of incident
 - Effect on flight (e.g. state damage to fuselage, etc.)
 - Number of wildlife (an estimate)
 - Size/Type of wildlife (if possible)

 2.3 To obtain better perspective of the extent of wildlife hazards, the Authority is also collecting data on “near misses”
 with wildlife. A “near miss” is defined as a situation in which a wildlife or flock of birds is within close proximity
 of an aircraft to cause alarm to the extent whereby pilots would have to take evasive action had such an action
 been possible. Pilots should report all “near misses” via RTF to Air Traffic Control.

 The RTF phraseology should include the following:

 - Aircraft Callsign
 - The phrase “WILDLIFE SIGHTING REPORT”
 - Altitude
 - Approximate geographical location
 - Time of incident
 - Number of wildlife (an estimate)
 - Size/Type of wildlife (if possible)

 2.4 A copy of the Wildlife Strike Reporting Form is shown on page ENR 5.6-2. Airline operators may send the
 completed Wildlife Strike Reporting Form to email address: changi.airside@changiairport.com


 AD 1 AERODROMES/HELIPORTS - INTRODUCTION


 AD 1.1 AERODROME AVAILABILITY

1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 This section contains information on all aerodromes which are available for international and domestic aircraft
 operations. Section AD 1 describes the use of aerodromes and the clearance formalities involved. Section AD
 2 contains information on the physical characteristics of aerodromes available for international and domestic
 operations.

1.1.1 As there are no heliports, section AD 3 has been omitted.

1.2 AERODROMES ADMINISTRATION
 The administration of the civil aerodromes is the responsibility of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore.

1.2.1 REGULATIONS CONCERNING AIRPORT USE

1.2.1.1 Standard conditions applicable to the landing, parking or storage of aircraft on aerodromes
 under the control of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore are as follows:
 a. The fees and charges for the landing, parking or housing of aircraft shall be those prescribed in section
 GEN 4.
 b. The Director-General of Civil Aviation shall have a lien on the aircraft, its parts and accessories, for such
 fees and charges as aforesaid.
 c. If payment of such fees and charges is not made to the Director-General of Civil Aviation within fourteen
 days after a letter demanding payment thereof has been sent by post addressed to the registered owner
 of the aircraft, the Director-General of Civil Aviation shall be entitled to sell, remove, destroy or otherwise
 dispose of the aircraft, and of its parts and accessories, and to apply the proceeds from so doing to the
 payment of such fees and charges.
 d. Neither the Director-General of Civil Aviation nor any servant or agent of the Government shall be liable
 for loss of or damage to the aircraft, its parts or accessories or any property contained in the aircraft,
 howsoever such loss or damage may arise, occurring while the aircraft is on any of the aerodromes under
 the control of CAAS or is in the course of landing or taking-off at any such aerodrome, or of being removed
 or dealt with elsewhere.

1.2.2 LANDINGS MADE ELSEWHERE OTHER THAN AT ALTERNATE AIRPORTS
1.2.2.1 If a landing is made elsewhere other than at an international airport or a designated alternate airport, the
 pilot-in-command shall report the landing as soon as practicable to the health, customs and immigration authorities
 at the international airport at which the landing was scheduled to take place. This notification may be made
 through any available communication link.

1.2.2.2 The pilot-in-command shall be responsible for ensuring that:

 a. If pratique has not been granted to the aircraft at the previous landing, contact between other persons on
 the one hand and the passengers and crew on the other is avoided;
 b. That cargo, baggage and mail are not removed from the aircraft except as provided below;
 c. Any foodstuffs of overseas origin, of any plant material is not removed from the aircraft except where local
 food is unobtainable. All food refuse including peelings, cores, stones of fruit, etc., must be collected and
 returned to the galley refuse container, the contents of which should not be removed from the aircraft
 except for hygiene reasons, in which case they must be destroyed by burning or deep burial.

1.2.3 TRAFFIC OF PERSONS AND VEHICLES ON AERODROMES

1.2.3.1 Demarcation of Zones
1.2.3.1.1 The grounds of each aerodrome are divided as follows:

 a. a public zone comprising the part of the aerodrome open to public;
 b. a security area comprising the rest of the aerodrome.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AD 1.1-2 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

1.2.3.2 Movement of Persons
1.2.3.2.1 Access to the security area is authorised only under conditions prescribed by CAAS.

1.2.3.2.2 The customs, police and health inspection offices and the premises assigned to transit traffic are normally
 accessible only to passengers, to staff of the public authorities and airlines and to authorised persons in pursuit
 of their duty.

1.2.3.2.3 The movement of persons having access to the security area is subject to the special rules laid down by CAAS.

1.2.3.3 Movement of Vehicles
1.2.3.3.1 The movement of vehicles in the security area is strictly limited to specially approved vehicles driven by authorised
 persons.

1.2.3.3.2 Drivers of vehicles, of whatever type, driving within the confines of the aerodrome, must respect the direction
 of the traffic signs and the posted speed limits and generally comply with the provisions of the Civil Aviation
 Authority of Singapore (Aerodrome) Regulations and with instructions given by the competent authorities.

1.2.3.4 Policing
1.2.3.4.1 Care and protection of aircraft, vehicles, equipment and goods for which the aerodrome facilities are used are
 not the responsibility of the State or any concessionaire who cannot be responsible for loss or damage which
 is not incurred through action by them or their agents.

1.3 CONDITIONS OF AVAILABILITY
1.3.1 Aerodromes marked as military are not available for public use unless prior permission has been obtained.

2 APPLICABLE ICAO DOCUMENTS
2.1 ICAO Standards and Recommended Practices are applied in accordance with Annex 14.

3 CIVIL USE OF MILITARY AIR BASES

3.1 Conditions of Use
3.1.1 Military aerodromes may be used by civil aircraft:

 a. at any time in genuine emergency requiring immediate landing at the nearest aerodrome;
 b. on agreed scheduled services;
 c. at other times with the permission of the authority responsible for the aerodrome, obtained prior to taking
 off for the aerodrome.

3.2 Civil aircraft using military aerodromes are subject to landing, housing and parking appropriate. Captains of
 aircraft are to report to ATC after landing and prior to taking off.

3.3 No responsibility will be undertaken for the provision of fuel oil, maintenance or other facilities except in cases
 of distress or exceptional circumstances. Pilots may make their own arrangements with civil fuel agents to refuel
 their civil aircraft on the aerodrome, provided that they furnish adequate cover against damage or loss arising
 from the presence of the agent's equipment and that prior permission is obtained from the Commanding Officer
 of the station.

3.4 Passengers embarking from this aerodrome will also have to pay the passenger service charge, where applicable.
 Foreign military aircraft are normally exempted by MINDEF Singapore from the airport charges. If exemption
 has not been granted, charges will be levied on foreign military aircraft.

3.5 Liability will not be accepted by the controlling Authority, its servants or agents, or by any agent or servant of
 the Government for the loss or damage, by accident, fire, flood, tempest, explosion of any other cause, to aircraft;
 or for loss or damage, from whatever cause arising to goods, mail or other articles, or for loss or injury from
 whatever cause, arising to passengers or other persons (including pilots, engineers or other personnel of aircraft),
 landing at, departing from, or accommodated in or at any service aerodrome; even if such loss, damage or injury
 is caused by or arises from negligence on the part of the Authority's servants or agents or of any servant or agent
 of the Government.

3.6 The use of any apparatus such as tractors, cranes, chocks, starter trolleys, etc., belonging to or under the charge
 of the controlling authority by the personnel of aircraft or other persons making use of the aerodrome, will be
 entirely at the risk of the person using such apparatus, and no liability will be accepted for any loss, damage or
 injury caused by or arising from the use of any such apparatus (whether under the control or management of
 any servant or agent of the controlling authority of the Government or otherwise) which may result to the user
 thereof or to any other person or thing. The use of such apparatus will be permitted only upon the understanding
 that the controlling authority and the Government will be held indemnified against all claims which may result

 © 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 1.1-3
 15 AUG 2019

 from such use. It must, further be clearly understood that the controlling authority does not in any way guarantee
 the safety or fitness of any such apparatus or of any equipment, petrol or oil, or similar products, supplied.

3.7 Production of Documents for Inspection
3.7.1 The pilot-in-command of an aircraft shall produce to any authorised person as and when requested by that
 person to do so, within reasonable time before the commencement or after the termination of a flight, any of the
 following documents:

 a. Certificate of Airworthiness;
 b. Certificate of Registration;
 c. The licences of its operating crew and of any person required under paragraph 19 of the Air Navigation
 Order to be the holder of such a licence;
 d. The Telecommunications Log Book in all cases which is required under the Air Navigation Order to be
 carried in the aircraft;
 e. Radio Station Licence;
 f. Copy of Load Sheet (Singapore registered aircraft only);
 g. Passenger Manifest showing name and place of embarkation and destination;
 h. Cargo Manifest;
 i. Copy of Certificate of Maintenance Review (Singapore registered aircraft only);
 j. Noise Certificate as required by paragraph 51 of the Air Navigation Order.

 Note: An ‘authorised person’ means any person authorised by the Minister either generally or in relation to a
 particular case or class of cases, and reference to an authorised person include references to the holder for
 the time being of any office designated by the Minister.

4 CAT II / III OPERATIONS AT AERODROMES
 Refer to WSSS AD 2.22 paragraphs 1.1 to 1.7.

5 FRICTION MEASURING DEVICE USED AND FRICTION LEVEL BELOW WHICH THE
 RUNWAY IS DECLARED SLIPPERY WHEN IT IS WET

5.1 Responsibility
5.1.1 The Changi Airport Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd is responsible for maintaining the civil aerodromes in a satisfactory
 condition for flight operations.

5.2 Measurement of Runway Surface Friction
5.2.1 The friction of the runway is calibrated periodically by the use of a Surface Friction Tester using self- wetting
 features on a clean surface at a speed of 95 km/hr. The principle employed in this case is the measurement of
 the force acting on the measuring wheel along the distance travelled. The equipment provides a continuous
 register of the mean coefficient of friction values.

5.2.2 Friction tests will be made over the usable length of the runway, by sections of one third of the length, and at
 approximately 3, 6, and 9 metres each side of the centreline in such manner as to produce mean values for each
 runway.

5.2.3 Should the friction value fall to 0.34 or less, NOTAM will be promulgated to notify the runway as liable to be
 slippery when wet.

5.2.4 The following table would be adopted by Changi Airport Group (Singapore) Civil Maintenance when they report
 the friction values tested on the runways.

 Friction Value Changi Airport Group’s Comment
 (from friction test) on values obtained
 > 0.34 Normal
 ≤ 0.34 May be Slippery when wet
 (NOTAM would be issued)




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 1.1-4 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

6 OTHERS

6.1 Dissemination of Information on Wet Runways
 The presence of water on a runway will be reported on RTF using the following descriptions:

 DAMP - the surface shows a change of colour due to moisture
 WET - the surface is soaked but there is no standing water
 STANDING WATER - for aeroplane performance purposes, a runway where more than 25 percent of the
 runway surface area (whether in isolated areas or not) within the required length and
 width being used is covered by water more than 3mm deep.

 When a runway is reported as DAMP or WET, subject to any notification to the contrary, pilots may assume that
 an acceptable level of runway wheel braking friction is available. When a runway is reported as having STANDING
 WATER, wheel braking may be affected by aquaplaning and appropriate operational adjustments should be
 considered.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 1.2-1
 12 NOV 2015


 AD 1.2 RESCUE AND FIRE FIGHTING SERVICES
Adequate rescue and fire fighting vehicles, equipment and personnel have been provided at all aerodromes available for use
by international commercial air transport. The levels of rescue and fire fighting facilities available for use are shown in item AD
2.6 of each aerodrome.
 12 NOV 2015


 AD 1.4 GROUPING OF AERODROMES
The criteria applied by Singapore in grouping aerodromes for the provision of information in this AIP is as follows:

1 Primary/Major International Aerodrome
1.1 The aerodrome of entry and departure for international air traffic, where all formalities concerning customs,
 immigration, health, animal and plant quarantine and similar procedures are carried out and where air traffic
 services are available on a regular basis.

2 Secondary/Other International Aerodrome
2.1 Another aerodrome available for the entry or departure of international air traffic, where the formalities concerning
 customs, immigration, health and similar procedures and air traffic services are made available, on a restricted
 basis, to flights with prior approval only.

3 National Aerodrome
3.1 An aerodrome available only for domestic air traffic, including those military aerodromes where civil air traffic is
 allowed under certain conditions.




© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore AD 1.5-1
 05 DEC 2019


 AD 1.5 STATUS OF CERTIFICATION OF AERODROMES
Aerodrome Name and Status of Date of Validity of Remarks
 Location Indicator Certification Certificate Certification
Singapore Changi Certified 1 July 2019 5 years from the Code 4F
WSSS date of certification
Seletar Certified 1 July 2019 5 years from the Code 3C
WSSL date of certification




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 07/2019
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-1
 26 MAR 2020

 AD 2 AERODROMES


 WSSS — SINGAPORE / SINGAPORE CHANGI INTL


 WSSS AD 2.1 AERODROME LOCATION INDICATOR AND NAME
WSSS — SINGAPORE / SINGAPORE CHANGI INTL



 WSSS AD 2.2 AERODROME GEOGRAPHICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE DATA
1 ARP coordinates and site at AD 012133.16N 1035921.57E (Control Tower)
2 Direction and distance from (city) 17.2km North-East from City Centre (The Fullerton Hotel, Singapore)
3 Elevation/Reference temperature 6.66 M / 32.8℃
4 Geoid Undulation (AD elevation position) 10.24 M
5 MAG VAR /Annual change 0°26' E (2015) / Negligible
6 AD Administration, address, telephone, telefax, AFS
CHANGI AIRPORT GROUP (SINGAPORE) PTE LTD
Singapore Changi Airport
P.O.Box 168, SINGAPORE 918146
Tel: (65)65956868

7 Types of traffic permitted IFR
8 Remarks
a. Not available to all non-scheduled civil aircraft types of 40-seater or below except in special circumstances. Aircraft
 larger than the above category shall not plan their arrival between 0900-1559UTC.

b. Aircraft shall leave nose-in position (90 degrees) with the aid of aircraft tow tractors. Reverse thrust or variable pitch
 propellers shall not be used. Aircraft operators shall make suitable arrangements.

c. Prior permission required for aircraft not equipped with radiotelephony.

d. A subsonic jet aircraft, unless otherwise exempted, is not permitted to operate in Singapore unless it possesses a noise
 certificate stating that it meets the noise standards of ICAO Annex 16, Volume 1, Chapter 3, or equivalent. The noise
 certificate may also take the form of a suitable statement contained in another document approved by the State of
 Registry of the aircraft.

e. RVR minima for CAT II ILS operations is limited to 350m due to runway and taxiway light spacing requirements on the
 airfield.

f. Frangible poles are installed for the purpose of identifying 90m away from the centreline of RWY 02L/20R and RWY
 02C/20C




 WSSS AD 2.3 OPERATIONAL HOURS
 Operational Hours
 1 Aerodrome Operator H24
 2 Customs and Immigration H24
 3 Health and Sanitation H24
 4 AIS Briefing Office H24
 5 ATS Reporting Office H24
 6 MET Briefing Office H24
 7 Air Traffic Services H24




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2020
AD 2.WSSS-2 AIP Singapore
17 AUG 2017


 WSSS AD 2.4 HANDLING SERVICES AND FACILITIES
 1 Cargo Handling Facilities Cargo terminals equipped with advanced storage stacker, material and pallet
 container handling systems, computerised cargo information, data and
 documentation systems. By arrangement with airlines.
 2 Fuel / Oil Types JET A1(for aircraft).
 Oils: Various by arrangement with fuel companies.
 3 Fuelling Facilities / Capacity Hydrant refueling
 4 Hangar space for visiting aircraft By arrangement with SIA Engineering Company (SIAEC) or ST Aerospace
 Services Co.
 5 Repair facilities for visiting aircraft Maintenance and repairs for commercial aircraft up to and including A380 is
 by arrangement.
 6 Remarks a. Marshalling Service: No pilot shall taxi an aircraft on its own into a
 gate/stand without the aid of a docking system or a marshaller.

 b. Oxygen and related servicing: Oxygen for all cabin and aircraft system.
 No CO₂ recharging facilities.




 WSSS AD 2.5 PASSENGER FACILITIES
 1 Hotels Transit area and adjacent to airport terminal.
 2 Restaurants Transit and public areas of terminal building.
 3 Transportation Buses, taxis, MRT train and car rental service.
 4 Medical Facilities Available at airport.
 5 Bank and Post Office Available at airport.
 6 Tourist Office Available at airport.
 7 Remarks Internet address : http://www.changiairport.com.sg
 for airport and flight information, shops and restaurants, facilities and services,
 flight connections and tourist information.




 WSSS AD 2.6 RESCUE AND FIRE FIGHTING SERVICES
 1 AD category for fire fighting CAT10 (No facilities for foaming of runways)
 2 Rescue equipment Adequately provided as recommended by ICAO.
 3 Capability for removal of disabled aircraft Specialised aircraft recovery equipment available for up to and
 including A380 size aircraft operation.
 4 Remarks All Airport Emergency Service personnel are trained in rescue and
 fire-fighting as well as medical first-aid.




 WSSS AD 2.7 SEASONAL AVAILABILITY - CLEARING
 There is no requirement for clearing. The aerodrome is available throughout the year.




AIP AMDT 05/2017 © 2017 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-3
 15 AUG 2019


WSSS AD 2.8 APRONS, TAXIWAYS AND CHECK LOCATIONS/POSITIONS DATA
 1 Apron surface and strength RWY 02L/20R Surface: Concrete
 RWY 02C/20C Strength: PCN 85/R/B/W/U
 2 Taxiway width, surface and RWY 02L/20R Width: Minimum width of 23m for all taxiways
 strength RWY 02C/20C Surface: Cement Concrete - Taxiways W1, W9, E1,
 E3, E11 and EP (between E10 and E11);
 Bituminous Concrete - All other Taxiways
 Strength: PCN 85/R/B/W/U - Taxiways W1, W9, E1,
 E3, E11 and EP (between E10 and E11);
 PCN 72/F/B/W/U - All other Taxiways
 3 ACL location and elevation
 See AD-2.WSSS-ADC-2/Chart (flip side) for coordinates and elevations of aircraft stands.
 4 INS checkpoints
 5 Remarks NIL




WSSS AD 2.9 SURFACE MOVEMENT GUIDANCE AND CONTROL SYSTEM AND
 MARKINGS
 1 Use of aircraft stand ID signs, TWY guidelines and visual docking/parking guidance system of aircraft stands.
 Taxiing guidance signs at all intersections with TWY and RWY at all holding positions. Guidelines at apron. Nose-in
 guidance at aircraft stands. For information on Safegate Aircraft Docking Guidance System, Taxiing Guidance System
 at Singapore Changi Airport, refer to WSSS AD 2.9.

 Aircraft stand manoeuvring guidance lights are provided at aircraft stands at Terminal 3, Terminal 4 and South Aprons.

 2 RWY and TWY markings and LGT
 RWY 02L/02C and RWY 20C

 RWY LGT: refer to WSSS AD 2.14 and WSSS AD 2.15.

 TWY LGT: Blue LGT on TWY curved edges, selected straight TWY edge sections and apron TWY edges only. Blue TWY
 edge markers along selected straight TWY edge sections. Red stop bar at TWY INT controllable on/off. Red stop bar
 LGT at TWY HLDG PSN entrances to RWY are controllable on/off and are supplemented with elevated RWY guard LGT
 at the sides.
 Internally/externally lighted mandatory or information TWY signboards.
 Yellow TWY centre line markings, supplemented by green centre line LGT with selective control along rapid exit TWY,
 taxi-routes to and from main RWY and aprons.

 MARKING AIDS: THR, touchdown zone, centre line, side stripe, RWY designations, aiming point markings, TWY centre
 line, taxi holding positions - all taxiways, apron guide lines.
 For positions of aircraft nosewheel in relation to stopbar and description of the Safegate Aircraft Docking Guidance System
 - refer to WSSS AD 2.9.

 RWY 20R

 RWY LGT: refer to WSSS AD 2.14 and WSSS AD 2.15.

 TWY LGT: same as for RWY 02L/02C and RWY 20C.

 MARKING AIDS: Pre-threshold centre-line, transverse stripe for displaced THR, RWY designations, THR, touchdown
 zone, aiming point marking, RWY centre-line and stripe marking aids.

 3 Stop bars: Stop bars where appropriate.
 4 Remarks: Where Red stop bar is not present at the TWY INT, Yellow INTERMEDIATE HLDG PSN LGT will be used at
 TWY INT and switched on between sunset and sunrise or during periods of poor visibility.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
 AD 2.WSSS-4 AIP Singapore
 21 MAY 2020eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 1 ADB SAFEGATE AIRCRAFT DOCKING GUIDANCE SYSTEM - SAFEDOCK

 1.1 INTRODUCTION
  1.1.1 The ADB Safegate Aircraft Docking Guidance System (ADGS) - SAFEDOCK is a fully automatic aircraft docking
 guidance system installed at the contact aircraft stands at Terminals 1, 2, 3 and 4, and at the remote aircraft
 stands at South Apron of Singapore Changi Airport.

 1.2 DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEM
 1.2.1 The system is based on a laser scanning technique and it tracks both the lateral and longitudinal position of the
 aircraft. This 3D technique allows the system to identify the incoming aircraft and check it against the one selected
 by the operator to ensure that the pilot is provided with the correct stop indication for the aircraft.

 1.2.2 The system is operated only in the Automatic Mode. When the system fails, the aircraft is to be marshalled into
 the stand manually.

 1.2.3 Azimuth guidance, continuous closing rate information, aircraft type, etc., are shown to the pilot on a single
 display clearly visible for both pilot and co-pilots. Figure A shows the Display and Laser Scanning Unit mounted
 on the terminal in front of the aircraft stand.

 LED DISPLAY AND LASER SCANNING UNIT

 




 AIP AMDT 03/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-5
 21 MAY 2020
 eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 1.3 DOCKING PROCEDURES
 Description Display on ADGS
 
 Checking of Aircraft Type

 - Check that the correct aircraft type is
 displayed. The scrolling arrows
 indicate that the system is activated.
 - Follow the lead-in line.




  Capture of Correct Aircraft Type

 - When the aircraft has been caught by
 the scanning unit, the scanning unit
 checks that the aircraft is the correct
 type and the display provides azimuth
 guidance information. When the solid
 yellow closing rate bar appears, the
 aircraft is being tracked by the
 system.


  Steering and Alignment of Aircraft

 - Look for the flashing red arrow and
 solid yellow arrow which provide
 azimuth guidance information. The
 flashing red arrow shows which
 direction to steer, while the solid
 yellow arrow gives an indication of
 how far the aircraft is off the
 centreline.


  Distance of Aircraft from STOP Position

 - When the aircraft is 15m from the stop
 position, closing rate information is
 given. “Distance to go” is indicated
 by turning off one row of LEDs (Laser
 Electronic Displays) for every half
 metre that the aircraft advances
 towards the stop position. From 15m
 to the stop position, the display will
 indicate the distance from the stop
 position for every 1m. At 3m from the
 stop position, the display will indicate
 the distance from the stop position for
 every 0.2m.

 
 STOP Position

 - When the correct stop position is
 reached, all of the LEDs for the
 closing rate bar will be off, the word
 “STOP” in red with red border will
 appear in the display.




 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2020
 AD 2.WSSS-6 AIP Singapore
 21 MAY 2020eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 Description Display on ADGS
 

 Checking of STOP Position

 - If the aircraft stops at the correct
 position, “OK” will be displayed after
 a few seconds.




 
 Overshooting of STOP Position

 - If the aircraft has gone past the
 correct stop position, the display will
 show “TOO FAR” after the aircraft
 comes to a complete stop.



 
 Object Blocking the View

 - If some object is blocking the view
 towards the approaching aircraft or
 the detected aircraft is lost before
 12m to the correct stop position, the
 system will show “WAIT”.



 




 Identification of Aircraft

 - The aircraft must be identified at least
 12m before the correct stop position.
 Otherwise, the display will show
 “WAIT”, “STOP” and “ID FAIL”.




 AIP AMDT 03/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-7
 21 MAY 2020
 eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 1.4 SAFETY MEASURES
 Description Display on ADGS
 
 ADGS Blank / Wrong Aircraft Type

 - Pilot should not turn an aircraft into
 the aircraft stand if the docking
 system is not activated or on seeing
 a wrong aircraft type displayed on the
 system.



 




 Proceeding beyond Passenger Loading
 Bridges

 - Pilot should not proceed beyond the
 passenger loading bridges unless the
 scrolling arrows (see figure 1) have
 been superseded by the solid yellow
 closing rate bar (see figure 2).




 
 Minimum Speed

 - When using the docking system,
 pilots are to taxi into the aircraft stand
 at minimum speed. The system will
 display “SLOW” to inform the pilot if
 the aircraft’s taxiing speed exceeded
 1.2m/s.


  Slow Down (In Abnormal Situations)

 - In bad weather conditions, the
 docking system may go into
 downgrade mode. The display will
 show the aircraft type and “SLOW”
 and the scrolling arrows are disabled
 (See Figure 1). When the system has
 detected the aircraft, the solid yellow
 closing rate bar appears. Docking
 process is allowed to continue but
 pilot should exercise caution.




 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2020
 AD 2.WSSS-8 AIP Singapore
 21 MAY 2020eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 Description Display on ADGS
 



 Overshooting

 - To avoid overshooting, pilots are
 advised to approach the stop position
 slowly and observe the closing rate
 information displayed. Pilots should
 stop the aircraft immediately when
 seeing the “STOP” or “WAIT” display
 or when given the stop sign by the
 aircraft marshaller or is unsure of the
 information displayed during the
 docking process.




 




 No Display

 - Pilot should stop the aircraft
 immediately if the display goes black,
 for power failure (see figure 1) or
 system failure (see figure 2), during
 the docking process. The aircraft is
 to be manually marshalled into the
 aircraft stand.




 AIP AMDT 03/2020 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-9
 15 AUG 2019

2 PROCEDURES FOR START-UP AND PUSHBACK OF AIRCRAFT
2.1 Ground crew shall ensure that the area behind an aircraft is clear of vehicles, equipment and other obstructions
 before the start-up or pushback of aircraft commences.

2.2 When it becomes necessary to vary a procedure to expedite aircraft movements, Ground Movement Controller
 (“Singapore Ground”) shall issue specific instructions to the pilot.

2.3 When the pilot is ready for start-up and pushback, he shall seek confirmation from the ground crew that there
 is no hazard to his aircraft starting up. He shall then notify Singapore Ground that he is ready for pushback. On
 being told by Singapore Ground that pushback is approved, he shall co-ordinate with the ground crew for the
 start-up and pushback of the aircraft.

2.4 The lead-in lines are for aircraft nose-in guidance. For aircraft stands without dedicated pushback lines, ground
 crew may use the lead-in lines for pushback guidance.

2.5 For more information, refer to Airport Operations Centre System (AOCS) at https://aoc.changiairport.com/ for
 detailed pushback procedures.

3 ADVANCED MULTILATERATION SYSTEM

3.1 INTRODUCTION
3.1.1 The Multilateration System is a new surveillance system which is able to detect and identify all Mode S equipped
 aircraft and vehicles moving on the airport surface even during bad weather conditions such as heavy rain. It
 will integrate with the current radar-based ground surveillance system as part of the Advanced-Surface Movement
 Guidance and Control System (A-SMGCS) at Singapore Changi Airport. This will enhance the efficiency and
 safety at the airport.

3.2 CARRIAGE OF MODE-S SSR TRANSPONDER
3.2.1 Carriage and operation of Mode-S transponder is required for all civil aircraft operating at Singapore Changi
 Airport. The Mode-S transponder shall comply, at least, to the requirements of Level 2 as prescribed in ICAO
 Annex 10 Volume IV (Amendment 77 or later) Standards and Recommended Practices.

3.3 MULTILATERATION SYSTEM OUTLINE
3.3.1 The Multilateration System uses multiple receivers to pick up “squitters” transmitted by aircraft or vehicle Mode
 S transponders. It calculates the position of an aircraft or a vehicle by comparing the time its “squitter” arrives
 at each receiver.

3.3.2 The System will derive the identity of an aircraft by selectively interrogating its transponder to receive its assigned
 Mode A code or extracting its aircraft identification [that is, the ICAO callsign used in flight and inserted in the
 Flight Management System (FMS) or the Transponder Control Panel], if available, from its squitter. For
 transponder equipped vehicles, the system will derive their respective identities from the unique Mode S
 addresses contained in their squitters.

3.4 AIRCRAFT REQUIREMENTS
3.4.1 The Multilateration System is essentially passive. It relies on aircraft transponders squittering at all times when
 moving on the airfield. At present, some aircraft checklist procedures instruct pilots to turn off the transponder
 shortly after leaving the runway on arrival and, not to switch it on until reaching the runway holding point for
 departure. This is in line with the requirement that Mode A/C transponders should not transmit on the ground,
 which does not apply to Mode S transmissions.

3.4.2 For the Multilateration System to work effectively, all aircraft Mode S transponders need to transmit Mode S
 squitters at all times when moving on the airfield, starting immediately prior to pushback, and for arrival aircraft
 until they are stationary at the aircraft stands. The Mode S transponders should not respond to All-Call
 interrogations, but should respond to addressed interrogations.

3.5 PROCEDURES/ACTIONS REQUIRED BY PILOTS
3.5.1 The Multilateration System needs to receive squitters and to acquire the Mode A code of a Mode S equipped
 aircraft at all times when it is on the ground. This is to enable detection and identification of the aircraft (from its
 Mode A code or ICAO callsign) as soon as it pushes back. Hence, the following actions from pilots are required.

3.5.2 Pre-Pushback / Taxi

 a. Pilots will be required to enter an assigned Mode A code at start-up. This code will be either a discrete or
 non-discrete code (a conspicuity code, e.g. 1000).




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-10 AIP Singapore
10 OCT 2019

 b. Pilots shall ensure that the aircraft transponder is operating (that is, XPNDR or the equivalent according
 to specific installation, AUTO if available, not OFF or STBY) and the assigned Mode A code is selected
 prior to the request for pushback or taxi, whichever is earlier.

 c. Whenever the aircraft is capable of reporting aircraft identification, the aircraft identification must also be
 entered prior to the request for pushback or taxi, whichever is earlier, through the FMS or the Transponder
 Control Panel. Flight crew must use the 3-letter ICAO designator of the operator, followed by flight
 identification number (for example, BAW123, SIA002).


3.5.3 After Landing

 a. Pilots shall ensure that the aircraft transponder is operating (that is, XPNDR or the equivalent according
 to specific installation, AUTO if available, not OFF or STBY) after landing, and continuously until the
 aircraft is stationary at the aircraft stand.

 b. Pilots shall ensure that the assigned Mode A code is not changed until the aircraft is stationary at the
 aircraft stand. (The system requires it for identification of the aircraft).


4 AIRFIELD GROUND LIGHTING CONTROL AND MONITORING SYSTEM (AGLCMS)
 AND MARKINGS

4.1 INTRODUCTION
4.1.1 The taxiing guidance system at Singapore Changi Airport consists of stop bars and green taxiway centreline
 lights. The system is designed to provide pilots with visual guidance while taxiing during night operations and
 during periods of low visibility. It is controlled by the Ground Movement Controller (GMC) at Changi Control
 Tower using the Airfield Ground Lighting Control and Monitoring System (AGLCMS).

4.2 TAXI INSTRUCTIONS
4.2.1 When the green centreline lights are switched on, ATC will issue verbal instructions to pilots/ airline operators
 for taxi / tow clearance. The green taxiway centreline lights are provided for guidance. Pilots/ airline operators
 shall stop at all red stop bar lights.

4.2.2 All green centreline lights on taxiways leading to the runways terminate at the runway holding positions where,
 by default, red stop bar lights remain on unless deselected by the Runway Controller. When deselected, these
 stop bar lights will re-activate automatically. Pilots and drivers shall not cross any lighted red stop bar lights.

4.2.3 Pilots and drivers shall enter / cross the runway or taxiway only when both the following conditions are met:
 The crew have

 a. Received positive ATC clearance to enter / cross the runway or taxiway, and
 b. Observed that the red stop-bar lights are turned off.

4.3 INFORMATION AND MANDATORY SIGNS/MARKINGS
4.3.1 When following ATC verbal taxi instructions, pilots are advised to also navigate their taxi route with reference
 to information and mandatory signs/markings provided at the airport so as to maintain situational awareness of
 their whereabouts at all times.




AIP AMDT 06/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-11
 15 AUG 2019


 WSSS AD 2.10 AERODROME OBSTACLES
1. Obstacles in Approach / TKOF areas

 IN APPROACH / TKOF AREAS
 RWY/Area affected Obstacles type, ELEV,Markings/LGT Location of Obstacles
 1 2 3
a) RWY 20R APCH Mast HGT ranging from 98ft AMSL and Shipping channel APRX 1290m from
 RWY 02L TKOF above. THR RWY 20R
b) RWY 20C APCH Mast HGT ranging from 98ft AMSL and Shipping channel APRX 2630m from
 RWY 02C TKOF above. THR RWY 20C.
c) RWY 02L/20R APCH ILS LLZ co-located with LLZ antennae. Within the RWY strip.
 RWY 02L/20R TKOF
 RWY 02C/20C APCH
 RWY 02C/20C TKOF
d) RWY 20R APCH Two antennae, HGT 72ft AMSL, marked 012311N 1035928E
 and LGTD
e) RWY 20R APCH Antenna, HGT 88ft AMSL, marked and 012315N 1035931E
 LGTD
f) RWY 02L APCH Antenna, HGT 82ft AMSL, marked and 012051N 1035827E
 LGTD
g) RWY 02L APCH Pole, HGT 128ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 011859N 1035748E
h) RWY 02L APCH Pole, HGT 160ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 012058N 1035814E
i) RWY 02L APCH Pole, HGT 131ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 012038N 1035848E
j) RWY 20L APCH Shipping channel APRX 1600m from THR RWY 20L.
Remarks: Obstacles are shown on the AOC, IAC and VAC.


2. Obstacles in Circling area and at Aerodrome

 IN CIRCLING AREA AND AT AERODROME
 Obstacles type, ELEV, Markings/LGT Location of Obstacles
 1 2
a) Surface wind direction sleeves LOC at each end of RWY adjacent to GP hut
b) PAR hut Besides RWY 02L/20R, opposite the PTB
c) Frangible PAR reflectors Located at ends of RWY 02L/20R
d) GP huts co-located with GP antennae Within the RWY strip
e) Antenna, HGT 82ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 012036N 1035819E
f) Antenna, HGT 85ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 012039N 1035821E
g) Antenna, HGT 78ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 012042N 1035823E
h) Antenna, HGT 82ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 012053N 1035827E
i) Antenna, HGT 78ft AMSL, marked and LGTD 012049N 1035826E
j) Frangible poles, HGT 9ft AMSL Installed APRX 200m from centre of RET to identify 58m
 away from TWY WP CL towards RWY 02L/20R
k) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012131N 1035956E
l) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012124N 1035953E
m) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012114N 1035949E
n) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012109N 1035947E
o) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012057N 1035941E
p) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012046N 1035937E
q) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012034N 1035932E
r) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012029N 1035930E
S) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012017N 1035925E
t) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 012005N 1035920E
u) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 011959N 1035917E
v) Frangible mast, HGT 29ft AMSL 011952N 1035914E
Remarks: Obstacles are shown on the AOC, IAC and VAC.





 WSSS AD 2.20 LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
1 DESIGNATION OF PAYA LEBAR AIRPORT AS AN ALTERNATE AERODROME FOR
 SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
 Please refer to section WSAP AD 2.20 for details.

2 WRONG APPROACHES AND LANDINGS OF AIRCRAFT BOUND FOR SINGAPORE
 CHANGI AND PAYA LEBAR AIRPORTS

2.1 INTRODUCTION
2.1.1 The attention of all pilots is drawn to the existence of Paya Lebar Airport close to Singapore Changi Airport. The
 runway at Singapore Changi Airport is orientated in the same true bearing as the runway at Paya Lebar Airport
 i.e. 023°/203°. Due to the close proximity of these two runways, pilots are cautioned against mistaking Paya
 Lebar Airport for the runway of Singapore Changi Airport and thus making an inadvertent visual landing or
 approach to land at Paya Lebar.

2.1.2 Erroneous approaches or landings usually occurred during the hours of darkness. In almost every instance, the
 weather prevailing at the time of the incident was generally good or fair.

2.1.3 There is intensive local flying at Paya Lebar and Seletar during the day and night. Thus, the risk of collision is
 very great if a wrong approach is made to any of the above two airports. Likewise, wrong approaches into
 Singapore Changi Airport can also be disastrous.

2.2 POINTS TO BEAR IN MIND WHEN APPROACHING SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
 OR PAYA LEBAR
2.2.1 The following points are highlighted to serve as a guide to assist pilots in making a correct approach into
 Singapore Changi Airport or Paya Lebar Airport and should be remembered and followed:

 a. The runways at Singapore Changi Airport and Paya Lebar Airport are identically aligned on 02/ 20.
 Therefore exercise extreme vigilance when leaving NYLON or SAMKO Holding Areas inbound and
 maintain correct tracks to the respective runways as listed below.

 b. Adhere strictly to IFR procedures even in VMC which calls for a procedure turn over NYLON Holding
 Area or SAMKO Holding Area as prescribed.

 c. Make full use of all available navigational and landing aids available and positively identify every aid used.

 d. Switch to the correct ILS localizer frequency at Singapore Changi Airport under all conditions.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-21
 15 AUG 2019

2.3 AERODROME CHARACTERISTICS OF SINGAPORE CHANGI AND PAYA LEBAR
 AIRPORTS
2.3.1 Tabulated below are details of aerodrome characteristics of Singapore Changi Airport and Paya Lebar Airport
 which indicate the similarities and significant differences for ease of identification by pilots operating into these
 two airports.

 Significant
 Aeronautical PAYA LEBAR SINGAPORE CHANGI
 Differences
 Service Airport Airport
 and Remarks
 02L/20R Exercise
 Magnetic
 02C/20C caution due to
 heading of 02/20
 similar RWY
 RWY
 alignment
 RWY 02 RWY 02L
 Modified Calvert High INTST with Precision APCH LGT CAT II. Extended
 centreline and 3 crossbars. High centreline with red side row barettes, 2
 INTST white LGT with brilliancy crossbars, 2 APCH beacons and
 control and sequenced flashing sequenced flashing lights.
 Approach lights.
 Lights RWY 20 RWY 20R
 Modified Calvert High INTST with Precision APCH LGT CAT I. Centreline
 centreline and 3 crossbars. High barettes flashing white, 2 APCH beacons
 INTST white LGT with brilliancy and sequenced flashing lights. (refer to
 control and sequenced flashing chart
 lights. AD-2-WSSS-ADC-2)
 RWY 20R
 IDENT ICH
 RWY 20 - NIL No back beam
 LLZ 108.9 MHz
 GP 329.3 MHz
 ILS
 RWY 02L
 IDENT ICW
 RWY 02 - NIL No back beam
 LLZ 110.9 MHz
 GP 330.8 MHz
 Flashing R ‘PL’ Flashing G ‘CH’
 IBN
 HN and IMC HN and IMC
 ABN NIL ALTN Flashing W G every 2.3 SEC




 WSSS AD 2.21 NOISE ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
1.1 To alleviate the problem of noise, all aircraft on AWY G579 between SINJON (SJ) and JAYBEE (JB) shall
 operate at/above 5,000ft.

1.2 The Standard Instrument Departure routes for aircraft departing on RWY 20R/20C are for the purpose of noise
 abatement in addition to being used for air traffic control.

1.3 Departures on RWY 20R are restricted between 1600-2200UTC. This restriction is not applicable when RWY
 20C/02C is unavailable because of maintenance works or for other reasons.

1.4 Unless it is necessary for operational or safety reasons, when using engine reverse, arrivals on RWY 02L/20R
 between 1600-2200UTC may not exceed idle reverse thrust.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-22 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019


 WSSS AD 2.22 FLIGHT AND GROUND PROCEDURES
1 LOW VISIBILITY PROCEDURES (LVP) FOR CATEGORY II ILS OPERATIONS

1.1 Introduction
1.1.1 Category II ILS approaches will be made available at Singapore Changi Airport to authorised flights during
 prolonged periods of low visibility, except during thunderstorms. RVR minima for CAT II ILS operations is limited
 to 350m due to runway and taxiway light spacing requirements on the airfield.

1.2 Authorisation for Category II ILS Approaches
1.2.1 Operators who wish to conduct Category II ILS operations at Singapore Changi Airport must have obtained
 operational approval from the relevant State of Operator and be authorised by the Civil Aviation Authority of
 Singapore.

1.3 Category II ILS Runways
1.3.1 At Singapore Changi Airport, Category II ILS approaches are available only on RWY 02L and RWY 20C, which
 are also equipped with precision approach Category II lighting system. When required, pilots making Category
 II ILS approaches to Singapore Changi Airport should refer to the procedures in the Instrument Approach Charts
 AD-2-WSSS-IAC-1 to AD-2-WSSS-IAC-11 and the Precision Approach Terrain Charts for RWY 02L and RWY
 20C at AD-2-WSSS-PATC-1 and AD-2-WSSS-PATC-2 respectively.

1.4 Initiation of Category II ILS Operations
1.4.1 Preparations will be made to implement LVP for Category II ILS operations at Singapore Changi Airport during
 prolonged period of low visibility, except during thunderstorms, when the RVR drops below 800 metres.

1.4.2 Availability of the Category II ILS approaches will be made known through NOTAM and ATIS broadcasts as
 well as air traffic control radio communications.

1.4.3 During LVP operations, aircraft will not be cleared for Category II ILS approach if any of the ILS or
 approach/runway lights fall below Category II requirements. Aircraft will not be cleared for landing if the Touchdown
 Zone RVR is unserviceable.

1.5 ILS Sensitive Areas
1.5.1 Upon landing, pilots shall report to Changi Tower once the aircraft has cleared the runway and has passed the
 ILS sensitive areas demarcated by alternate yellow and green lights along the centrelines of Rapid Exit Taxiways
 and Cross Taxiways.

1.6 Termination of LVP for Category II ILS Operations
1.6.1 LVP for Category II ILS operations will be terminated when RVR has improved above 800 metres. Termination
 of LVP for Category II ILS operations will be made known through NOTAM and ATIS broadcasts as well as air
 traffic control radio communications.

1.7 Operations of flights Not Authorised for Category II ILS
 Operations
1.7.1 During Category II ILS operations, if the RVR is 550 metres or above, flights not authorised for Category II ILS
 operations may continue to make approaches and land. Airlines planning to operate flights not authorised for
 Category II ILS operations into Changi shall monitor the METAR to ascertain the RVR values when launching
 their flights and be prepared to divert if the RVR is below 550 metres.

2 RUNWAY UTILISATION

2.1 Runway-in-use
2.1.1 The runway-in-use (Departure/Arrival) is selected by Aerodrome Control as the optimum for general purposes
 and to maximise runway utilisation. If the assigned runway is unsuitable for a particular operation, the pilot can
 obtain permission from ATC to use another runway but should anticipate delay.

2.2 Departures
2.2.1 Pilots should arrange their taxi such that they are ready to depart without delay on reaching the runway holding
 point. As standard ICAO wake turbulence separation is being applied, pilots are to advise ATC early if more
 time is needed for the aircraft to be ready for departure. When informed, ATC will be able to make changes in
 the departure sequence, if necessary, to minimise delays to other succeeding departures.


AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-23
 15 AUG 2019

2.2.2 Pilots should complete cockpit checks prior to line-up for departure and keep any checks on the runway to a
 minimum.

2.2.3 Conditional line-up clearance may be used by ATC to facilitate an expeditious flow of traffic. On receipt of line-up
 clearance, pilots should taxi into position promptly without delay. Unless given instructions to line-up and wait,
 pilots should be ready and prepared to depart without stopping. On receipt of take-off clearance, pilots to
 commence take-off roll without delay.

2.3 Clearance for Immediate Take-Off
2.3.1 A pilot receiving the ATC instruction ‘cleared for immediate take-off’ is required to act as follows:

 a. if waiting clear of the runway, taxi immediately on to it and begin take-off run immediately without stopping
 the aircraft;
 b. if already lined-up on the runway, take-off without delay;
 c. if unable to comply with the instruction, inform ATC immediately.

2.4 Arrivals - Minimum Runway Occupancy Time (ROT)
2.4.1 Arriving aircraft upon landing are reminded that it is imperative to vacate the runway as quickly as practicable
 to enable ATC to apply minimum spacing on final approach and minimise the occurrence of “go-arounds”.

2.4.2 To achieve minimum ROT and reduce missed approaches due to occupied runway, pilots should vacate the
 runway via the first available exit taxiway corresponding to operational requirements, or as instructed by ATC.
 If an exit taxiway other than the first available exit taxiway is required, pilots shall advise the Tower Controller
 on first contact.

2.4.3 To enhance planning, pilots can make reference to the Landing Exit Distance (LED), the distance from threshold
 to the furthest edge of the exit taxiway:

 RWY Exit Taxiway (LED in metres) Remarks
 20R W6(1655), W7(2123) and W8 (3061) Note 1: Recommended exit taxiways are bold and underlined.
 20C E6(1948), E7(2391) and E8 (3152)
 Note 2: Indicates Rapid Exit Taxiway (RET) and maximum
 02L W5(1966), W4(2491) and W3 (2876)
 design ground speed for the exit taxiway is 50kts.
 02C E5(2055), E4(2565) and E3 (3267)

2.4.4 Pilots can expect initial taxi instructions from the Runway Controller before clearing the exit taxiway. Aircraft
 vacating the runway-in-use should not stop on the exit taxiway until the entire aircraft has passed the runway
 holding point.

2.4.5 BTN 0830-1030 daily estimated delays of about 15 minutes can be expected for arrivals into Singapore Changi
 Airport.

2.5 Reduced Runway Separation Minima
2.5.1 Reduced Runway Separation Minima may be applied between a departing aircraft and a succeeding landing
 aircraft or between two successive landing aircraft on the same runway provided the following conditions exist:

 a. During the hours of daylight from 30 minutes after local sunrise to 30 minutes before local sunset;

 b. Visibility of at least 5km;

 c. Cloud ceiling shall not be lower than 1,000ft;

 d. Tailwind component shall not exceed 5 knots;

 e. The second aircraft will be able to see the first aircraft clearly and continuously until the first aircraft is
 clear of the runway;

 f. Traffic information shall be provided to the flight crew of the succeeding aircraft concerned;

 g. The braking action shall not be adversely affected by runway contaminants such as water;

 h. Wake turbulence separation minima shall be applied; and

 i. Responsibility for ensuring adequate separation between the two aircraft rests with the pilot of the second
 aircraft.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-24 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019


2.5.2 When reduced Runway Separation Minima is applied, the successive landing aircraft may be given a clearance
 to land before the first aircraft has cleared the runway-in-use after landing or crossed the runway end on departure
 provided there is reasonable assurance that the following separation distances will exist when the landing aircraft
 crosses the runway threshold:

 Landing following Landing Landing following Departure
 RWY The preceding aircraft has landed and has passed The departing aircraft is/will be airborne and has
 02L/20R a point at least 2500m from the threshold of runway passed a point at least 2500m from the threshold
 (abeam TWY W4 for RWY 02L or TWY V7 for RWY of the runway (abeam TWY W4 for RWY 02L or
 20R), is in motion and will vacate the runway without TWY V7 for RWY 20R).
 backtracking.
 RWY The preceding aircraft has landed and has passed The departing aircraft is/will be airborne and has
 02C/20C a point at least 2500m from the threshold of the passed a point at least 2500m from the threshold
 runway (abeam TWY E4 for RWY 02C or TWY E7 of the runway (abeam TWY E4 for RWY 02C or
 for RWY 20C), is in motion and will vacate the TWY E7 for RWY 20C).
 runway without backtracking.


2.6 Phraseology
2.6.1 When issuing a landing clearance following the application of these procedures, ATC will issue the second
 aircraft with the following instructions:

 ".... (call sign) .... after the landing / departing .... (Aircraft Type) Runway .....(Designator) cleared to
 land".

3 AIRPORT COLLABORATIVE DECISION MAKING (A-CDM) MODE OF OPERATIONS
3.1 A-CDM aims to optimise airport operations by having an efficient turnaround process and improving the
 predictability of operational events. It also helps to improve gate management, flight punctuality, reduce apron
 taxiway and holding point congestion which is beneficial to all airport partners. A-CDM involves sharing of
 accurate and timely operational information amongst airport partners through different airport systems and
 improving work processes by implementing a set of operational procedures.

3.2 The A-CDM procedures apply to all scheduled flights departing Singapore Changi Airport except for VVIP,
 CASEVAC, SAR and aircraft on special tasks. ATC shall have full discretion in conduct of such operations.

3.3 Definition of commonly used terms in A-CDM

 a. Target Off Block Time (TOBT) – The time an aircraft operator (AO) or ground handling agent (GHA)
 estimates that an aircraft will be ready, all doors closed, boarding bridge removed, pushback vehicle
 available and ready to start-up / pushback immediately upon receipt of clearance from ATC.
 b. Target Start Up Approval Time (TSAT) – The time provided by ATC that an aircraft can expect start-up
 / push back approval.
 c. Calculated Take Off Time (CTOT) – A time calculated as a result of tactical slot allocation, at which a
 flight is expected to become airborne.

4 A-CDM PRE-DEPARTURE PROCEDURES
4.1 Singapore Changi Airport’s A-CDM portal will automatically calculate a system TOBT for each departure flight
 taking into account the estimated or actual in-block time (EIBT / AIBT), minimum turnaround time (MTT) and
 scheduled time of departure (STD)

4.2 If the calculated TOBT (EIBT / AIBT + MTT) is earlier than STD, the system will take the STD as TOBT.

4.3 If the calculated TOBT (EIBT / AIBT + MTT) is later than STD, the amount of turnaround delay that system
 predicts is equal to TOBT – STD.

4.4 AO are required to assess the system generated TOBT at 40 minutes prior to departure and update it if the
 prediction of departure readiness is different. Thereafter, TOBT needs to be monitored and updated constantly
 if it is expected to differ by 5 minutes or more until the flight commences pushback. AO can consider delegating
 the responsibility of TOBT submission to their ground handling agent (GHA) subject to prior internal arrangements
 between AO and GHA.

4.5 TOBT shall be updated through the following systems:

 a. Airport Operations Centre System (AOCS) A-CDM web based portal; or
 b. Gate Message Input Display (GMID) at boarding rooms;



AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-25
 15 AUG 2019

4.6 AO/GHA is encouraged to update TOBT through ONLY one of the above systems in order to avoid any chance
 of a miscommunication.

4.7 TOBT information is available through the following channels:

 a. AOCS A-CDM portal;
 b. GMID;
 c. Aircraft Docking Guidance System (ADGS) at contact stands;
 d. Radio communication with GHA or AO.

4.8 The Pre-Departure Sequencer (PDS) will calculate the TSAT automatically by taking into account factors such
 as TOBT, calculated take-off time (CTOT), variable taxi times (VTT), wake turbulence category, departure
 separation, etc. A pre-departure sequence is determined from the calculated TSATs, thus the accuracy of TOBT
 is vital to an optimal TSAT.

4.9 Flights with an invalid or expired TOBT will be instructed by ATC to update TOBT when requesting for clearance.
 For non-compliant flights, delays can be expected. AO or GHA are strongly encouraged to update TOBT as
 soon as any expected delay to the aircraft readiness for pushback is made available to avoid unnecessary
 hold-ups.

4.10 TSAT information is available through the following channels:

 a. AOCS A-CDM portal;
 b. GMID;
 c. ADGS at contact stands;
 d. Radio communication with GHA or AO;
 e. ATC - Upon issuance of ATC clearance (for flights parked at aircraft stands without ADGS).

5 A-CDM START-UP PROCEDURES
5.1 Pilot shall ensure aircraft is ready for pushback at TOBT.

5.2 Pilot to maintain communication with the AO / GHA as they are responsible for updating the TOBT. Notify the
 AO / GHA to update the TOBT if it is expected to differ by 5 minutes or more.

5.3 Pilot utilising the DCL service on selected routes shall request for ATC clearance through ‘Request for Departure
 Clearance Downlink’ (RCD) message no earlier than 20 minutes before TOBT. Refer to WSSS AD 2.22 paragraph
 8.4 on the applicable routes for DCL service and procedures.

5.4 Pilot using voice request to contact Ground Movement Planner (Clearance Delivery) and request for ATC
 clearance within 5 minutes of TOBT using the following phraseology:

 - Callsign
 - Destination
 - Proposed flight level and alternate level, if any
 - Parking position

 a. Pilot shall only request for ATC clearance provided aircraft is ready to pushback at TOBT.

5.5 Regardless of clearance through voice or datalink, all departing aircraft must report to Clearance Delivery when
 ready for push within 5 minutes of TOBT.

5.6 ATC will advise the pilot whether the proposed flight level or other alternate flight level is available and an ATC
 clearance will be issued accordingly. If pre-departure coordination with an adjacent unit or centre is required,
 the pilot will be instructed to standby.

5.7 ATC will update TSAT changes if any, during issuance of ATC clearances. Note that TSAT displayed on ADGS
 may not be final and can be revised due to en-route clearance restrictions, ground congestion or flow measures.

5.8 Pilot shall request for pushback from Ground Movement Control within 5 minutes of TSAT after obtaining ATC
 clearance, or as directed by ATC.

 a. ATC may swap pushback sequence based on real-time readiness of aircrafts to maximise apron and
 runway capacity and reduce the overall delay to traffic as and when required.
 b. At the end of pushback, the departing aircraft must have all engines started and be ready to taxi
 immediately, unless otherwise instructed by ATC.

 Note: The first aircraft to taxi may not necessarily be the first aircraft to take-off as distances between aircraft
 stands and the departure runway vary.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-26 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

5.9 If a flight is unable to pushback by TSAT + 5 minutes due to the aircraft being unready, ATC clearance and
 TSAT will be cancelled. Pilot must notify the AO / GHA to update the TOBT for a new TSAT before requesting
 for a new ATC clearance. This also applies to aircraft returning back to blocks after pushback.

 a. ATC will inform the aircraft when a clearance is cancelled using the phraseology; “(Callsign of aircraft)
 your ATC clearance and TSAT is cancelled (reason). Update TOBT before requesting for new clearance”.
 b. Flight may also have its ATC clearance cancelled if it develops a technical problem after pushback and
 is unable to taxi for prolonged duration.

5.10 Non-compliance of initial TSAT may result in an aircraft losing its existing position in the pre- departure sequence.
 Delay can be expected as a result of re-sequencing based on new TOBT input.

5.11 If delay in pushback is due to ground traffic movement or ATC clearance restrictions, the ATC clearance and
 TSAT will remain valid even if it exceeds TSAT + 5 minutes. TOBT need not be updated for such situations.

5.12 In the event that A-CDM mode of operations need to be cancelled due to any reason, the termination will be
 communicated to relevant parties through email by the airport operator and a NOTAM will be issued by ATC.
 Pilot shall follow the non-CDM procedures detailed in para 13.

5.13 Quick overview of WSSS start-up for pilots

 Definitions of commonly used terms

 - Target Off-Block Time (TOBT) - The time that an AO or GHA estimates that an aircraft will be ready,
 all doors closed, boarding bridge removed, pushback vehicle available and ready to start-up / pushback
 immediately upon receipt of ATC clearance.

 - Target Start-up Approval Time (TSAT) - The time provided by ATC that an aircraft can expect start-up
 / pushback approval.

 TOBT and TSAT requirements

 - Irrespective of the TSAT, the aircraft must be ready for departure at the TOBT +/- 5 minutes as the TSAT
 may be revised forward at short notice.

 - Any time the TOBT or TSAT cannot be met, or an earlier departure is required, the TOBT must be updated
 expeditiously by the aircraft operator or ground handler.

 ATC Clearance

 - ATC Clearance on selected ATS routes can be requested via Data Link Departure Clearance (DCL) at
 TOBT- 20 minutes.

 - If DCL is not available, ATC Clearance should be requested via Clearance Delivery at TOBT +/-5 minutes.

 Start-up / Pushback Clearance

 - Pilots must be ready for start-up / pushback at TOBT +/- 5 minutes.

 - Pilots should request start-up / pushback clearance at TSAT +/- 5 minutes.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-27
 15 AUG 2019


6 A-CDM INFORMATION VIA AIRCRAFT DOCKING GUIDANCE SYSTEM (ADGS)
6.1 All contact stands in Singapore Changi Airport will have ADGS. The fundamental operation and usage of ADGS
 still remain the same for flight crew. Additional information which includes TOBT, TSAT and TOBT count-down
 timer will be displayed in local times as part of the improvements to support A-CDM operations.

 Aircraft Docking Guidance System (ADGS)
 Description Display on ADGS




 Aircraft arrival to stand

 - No change in existing
 functionality and display




 40 minutes prior to TOBT

 - ADGS will display TOBT
 submitted by AO / GHA and a
 count down timer (2 digits) to
 TOBT in minutes

 - As ADGS can only display up
 to 7 characters per line, the
 displayed message will be
 scrolling.

 - Timings displayed will be in
 Local Time (LT)

 - TOBT timings will change
 instantly if there is an update
 done by AO / GHA




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-28 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

 Aircraft Docking Guidance System (ADGS)
 Description Display on ADGS




 25 minutes prior to TOBT

 - ADGS will display TSAT
 derived by PDS

 - As ADGS can only display up
 to 7 characters per line, the
 displayed message will be
 scrolling.

 - TSAT timings may change as
 the PDS is continuously
 optimising push back times
 based on real time traffic
 conditions




 Aircraft departure from stand

 - ADGS will display the actual
 off-block time (AOBT)

 - As ADGS can only display up
 to 7 characters per line, the
 displayed message will be
 scrolling

 - TOBT, TSAT and TOBT
 countdown timer will be
 removed

 - AOBT display will be removed
 3 minutes after AOBT




7 CONTACT AND INFORMATION
7.1 Please contact the airport operator, Changi Airport Group (CAG), at a-cdm@changiairport.com for application
 of AOCS A-CDM and GMID account or if you have any queries.

7.2 Aircraft operators may also contact their ground handling agent directly on queries regarding TOBT submission.

8 DEPARTURE CLEARANCE (DCL) VIA DATALINK PROCEDURES
8.1 Aircraft need to be equipped with Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) to
 support DCL application and be compliant with the European Organisation for Civil Aviation Equipment
 (EUROCAE) ED-85A (Data Link Application System Document (DLASD) for the DCL datalink service) and
 ARINC Specification 623-3.

8.2 Singapore application of DCL is in accordance with ED-85A.

8.3 The logon ID of the ground system for the provision of DCL service is WSSS.


AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-29
 15 AUG 2019

8.4 DCL service is only applicable for flights departing from WSSS to the following routes / destinations:

 a. Destinations in Peninsular Malaysia via ATS Routes A457 and B466
 b. Destinations in Thailand via ATS Routes B466 and B469 / M751
 c. Destinations in Indonesia via ATS Route A457, R469 and B470
 d. Destinations in Australia and New Zealand via ATS Route B470
 e. Flights with allocated Calculated Take-Off Time (CTOT) under Bay of Bengal Cooperative Air Traffic
 Flow Management (BOBCAT)


8.5 Pilot utilising the DCL service on selected routes shall request for ATC clearance through RCD message no
 earlier than 20 minutes before TOBT.

 a. For flights with allocated CTOT under BOBCAT, to input "CTOT HHMMz’’ under the free text field in RCD
 message.
 b. For flights routed via ANITO B470, to input "ANITO FLxxx"(ANITO crossing level) under the free text field
 in RCD message.
 c. Pilot shall contact Clearance Delivery or the next assigned frequency in ‘Departure Clearance Uplink’
 (CLD) message within 5 minutes of TOBT using the following phraseology:

 - <"Callsign"...With P-D-C, fully ready>

 - Provide requested flight level if it differs from PFL filed in flight plan

 - Provide CTOT or ANITO crossing if not previously given in RCD message


8.6 DCL message format does not include the requested cruising level and final cruising level.

 a. The planned flight level (PFL) filed in flight plan field 15b will be used as requested level unless otherwise
 specified by pilot.
 b. Final cruising level will be assigned by Singapore ATC after airborne and it is subjected to traffic disposition.
 No on-ground level negotiations or reservations are allowed.

8.7 DCL service does not provide clearance revision. Any revision to the clearance issued via datalink will be made
 by ATC through voice communications.

8.8 Clearance request through VHF using the existing voice procedures is still available for applicable flights under
 the DCL service.

8.9 ATC will reject the DCL request and send a "revert to voice procedures" message to the pilot if one of the following
 occurs:

 a. Flight's routes / destinations not stated in paragraph 8.4
 b. RCD message does not comply with ED-85A or have inaccurate flight data,
 e.g. different Callsign / ADES from flight plan
 c. Invalid TOBT
 d. When required by ATC due to flow restriction

8.10 Upon receipt of any “revert to voice procedures” message, pilot shall cancel any clearance received previously
 (if any) and follow the existing voice procedures for clearance request, i.e. contact Clearance Delivery within 5
 minutes of TOBT.

8.11 Pilot shall monitor the clearance delivery frequency once the DCL process is initiated. In the event of any issues
 encountered, ATC will revert to voice procedures.

8.12 ATC will revert with CLD message within 5 minutes of receipt of the RCD message. If no CLD message is
 received, pilot is to call on delivery frequency to verify request.

8.13 Pilot shall respond with ‘Departure Clearance Readback Downlink’ (CDA) message within 5 minutes of receipt
 of CLD message. Failure to comply may result in a "revert to voice procedures" message being sent.

 Note: The DCL process is only complete and clearance confirmed when CDA message is received and processed
 successfully.
 A “CDA received – clearance confirmed” message will be sent to the pilot.

8.14 Aircraft operator / ground handling agent shall continue to update TOBT to reflect any changes in readiness
 time in accordance to A-CDM startup procedures stated in AIP Singapore section WSSS AD 2.22 paragraph
 5.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-30 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

8.15 ATC will check for TOBT compliance and update pilot of any revisions in departure clearance and flow restrictions
 before handing the flight over to Ground frequency for start-up and pushback.

8.16 ATC will cancel the clearance issued and send a "revert to voice procedures" message if pilot does not report
 ready for push within 5 minutes of TSAT.

9 ASSIGNMENT OF FLIGHT LEVELS TO AIRCRAFT DEPARTING FROM SINGAPORE
 CHANGI AIRPORT
9.1 Assignment of flight levels to departing aircraft is made on a best-planned-best-served basis (with reference to
 TOBT for ATC clearance request detailed in para 5.4). Aircraft will normally be assigned the level requested
 unless an alternate level is offered after coordination with the adjacent ATC centres.

9.2 Departing flights from Singapore requesting FL280 or FL320 on L759, M770, N571, N571/N877 or P628 will
 be cleared as follows:

 a. Aircraft departing Singapore will be cleared to FL280;
 b. Succeeding aircraft on the same route will be cleared to FL280 with 10min longitudinal separation provided
 there is no closing speed with the preceding aircraft;
 c. Additional longitudinal separation as appropriate shall be imposed by ATC when the succeeding aircraft
 is faster than the preceding aircraft on the same route;
 d. The first aircraft from either Singapore or Kuala Lumpur to be over GUNIP on N571 or N571/N877, the
 Kuala Lumpur/Bangkok FIR boundary on M770 or L759 and VPL on P628 can expect its requested flight
 level

10 DELAY IN PUSHBACK AND/OR TAXIING DUE TO OTHER AIRCRAFT
10.1 Delays may be expected for the second aircraft to pushback and to taxi when two or more aircraft are parked
 either adjacent to one another or close together. However, it will retain its ATC clearance even if the 5 minutes
 grace period allowed for under para 5.9 is exceeded.

 Note: The TSAT may not be able to predict delays arising from apron congestion as traffic movement on ground
 is dynamic and situations may change on a real time basis depending on aircraft readiness. ATC will facilitate
 pushback as soon as possible when traffic permits.

11 DELAY IN TAKE-OFF DUE TO RESTRICTIONS IN THE ATC CLEARANCE
11.1 The ATC clearance may require an aircraft to arrive at a reporting point at a specified time and level or to depart
 a number of minutes behind a preceding traffic to establish the appropriate longitudinal separation. Such delay
 will not deprive a departing aircraft of its ATC clearance even though the 5 minutes grace period allowed for
 under para 5.9 is exceeded.

12 DELAY DUE TO OVERFLIGHTS
12.1 These are flights operating through Singapore FIR without landing at Singapore Changi Airport. Depending on
 their positions, a departing aircraft requesting the same level may have to accept an alternate level or may have
 to delay its departure in order to establish the prescribed separation.

13 NON-CDM MODE OF OPERATIONS
13.1 The non-CDM procedures is applicable for non-scheduled flights departing Changi Airport or when TOBT and
 TSAT references used in A-CDM mode of operations become unavailable due to system issues or maintenance.

13.2 If TOBT cannot be submitted or it is unavailable through different channels stated in para 4.5,

 a. Pilots shall notify ATC when the aircraft is ready to pushback within 5 minutes.
 b. ATC will advise the pilot whether the proposed flight level or other alternate flight level is available and
 an ATC clearance will be issued accordingly. If pre-departure coordination with an adjacent unit or centre
 is required, the pilot will be instructed to standby.
 c. Once flight level is accepted by the pilot and an ATC clearance issued, the aircraft must be pushed back
 within 5 minutes from the time the ATC clearance is accepted unless other ATC restrictions are imposed.
 The ATC clearance will be cancelled on expiry of the 5 minutes grace period. This also applies to situations
 when aircraft return to blocks after pushback or develop technical issues and is unable to continue taxi.
 d. Pilots who are ready to depart following the cancellation of an ATC clearance will adopt the procedures
 as if it is the first time they are ready to depart.

13.3 If TSAT is unavailable through different means stated in para 4.10,

 a. AO and GHA shall continue to submit TOBT and pilots shall request for ATC clearance 5 minutes within
 TOBT stated in para 5.4



AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-31
 15 AUG 2019

 b. ATC will revert to the gate hold procedures stated in para 14 and issue estimated pushback times
 accordingly.

14 GATE HOLD PROCEDURES FOR DEPARTING AIRCRAFT (DURING NON-CDM MODE
 OF OPERATIONS)
14.1 Whenever there are about five to seven departing aircraft at the runway holding point, subsequent pushback of
 departures will be regulated such that the Ground Movement Planner (GMP) on VHF frequency 121.65MHz
 will start to issue pilots with Expected Pushback Time (EPT) as TSAT used in A-CDM operations is not available.
 The determination of EPT will take into account an aircraft's parking stand as well as taxi time to the runway-in-use
 holding point.

14.2 When an EPT is issued, pilots will be instructed to either remain on GMP frequency or to monitor Singapore
 Ground Control (frequencies 121.725MHz, 121.85MHz, 122.55MHz, 124.3MHz or 125.65MHz). It should be
 noted that when instructed to monitor the Singapore Ground frequencies, pilots shall not establish contact with
 the Singapore Ground Control, rather, pilots shall maintain listening watch on the assigned Singapore Ground
 Control frequency and wait for pushback instruction. This is to prevent unnecessary frequency congestion.

14.3 A flight issued with an EPT but chooses to commence pushback before the assigned time will be allowed to do
 so subject to traffic. However, the flight should not expect an earlier departure time as the planned pre-departure
 sequence will be maintained.

14.4 In a situation when a departing aircraft is occupying a gate that has been assigned to an arriving aircraft, the
 departing aircraft will be instructed by GMP to contact Singapore Ground Movement Control for pushback for
 the purpose of better gate utilisation.

14.5 To maximise runway utilisation, departure sequence will be planned on the basis of increasing runway throughput
 so as to enhance overall efficiency.

15 GROUND MOVEMENT PLANNER ON VHF 121.65MHz
15.1 The frequency shall be used for aircraft pre-flight checks and ATC clearances. Pilot-in-command to make his
 initial call from the parked position on this frequency.

16 GROUND MOVEMENT CONTROL ON VHF 121.725MHz, 121.85MHz, 122.55MHz,
 124.3MHz and 125.65MHz
16.1 This frequency shall be used for aircraft start-up/push-back clearance.

16.2 Unless otherwise instructed by ATC, the pilot-in-command shall prior to starting engines listen out on the Ground
 Movement Control frequency on 121.725MHz, 121.85MHz, 122.55MHz, 124.3MHz or 125.65MHz.

16.3 The pilot-in-command shall:

 a. Request and obtain taxi instructions prior to taxiing;
 Note: ATC clearance, including the assigned SSR code will normally be issued prior to push back. Pilot
 shall squawk the SSR code immediately when airborne.

 b. Change from Ground Movement Control frequency to the Runway Control frequency when instructed
 (118.6MHz or 118.25MHz). It should be noted that when instructed to monitor Singapore Tower frequencies,
 pilots shall not establish contact with Singapore Tower; rather, pilots shall maintain a listening watch on
 the assigned Singapore Tower frequency and wait for instruction. This is to prevent unnecessary frequency
 congestion.

16.4 Departing aircraft will be instructed when to change from 118.6MHz or 118.25MHz to Singapore Departure
 frequency 120.3MHz.

16.5 In the case of the aircraft having landed, the pilot-in-command shall change from 118.6MHz or 118.25MHz to
 121.725MHz, 121.85MHz, 122.55MHz, 124.3MHz or 125.65MHz immediately upon instructed by ATC after
 clearing the runway. He shall maintain watch on 121.725MHz, 121.85MHz, 122.55MHz, 124.3MHz or 125.65MHz
 for taxiing and parking instructions until he arrives at his aircraft stand.

17 TAXIING
17.1 Taxi clearance given by Singapore Ground Movement Control will relate to movement on the manoeuvring area,
 but excluding the marshalling area.

17.2 Aircraft taxiing on the manoeuvring area will be regulated by ATC to avoid or reduce possible conflict and will
 be provided with traffic information and alerting service. ATC shall apply taxiing clearance limits whenever
 necessary.



© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-32 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

17.3 The taxiway routes to be used by aircraft after landing or when taxiing for departure will be specified by ATC.
 The issuance by ATC of a taxi route to an aircraft does not relieve the pilot-in-command of the responsibility to
 maintain separation with other aircraft on the manoeuvring area or to comply with ATC directions intended to
 regulate aircraft on the manoeuvring area. Pilots are also advised of the possibility of misjudging the
 clearance between the aircraft wing tips and other obstacles, especially in areas of hot-spots or
 during low-light / poor visibility conditions.

17.4 Pilots are reminded to always use minimum power when starting engines, when manoeuvring within the apron
 area or when manoeuvring from apron taxiways to other parts of the aerodrome. It is especially critical when
 commencing to taxi that break-away thrusts are kept to an absolute minimum and then be reduced to idle thrusts
 as soon as possible.

18 TAKE-OFF AND LANDING
18.1 Departing aircraft will normally be directed by ATC to use the full length of the runway for take-off. On obtaining
 an ATC clearance the aircraft shall enter the runway via designated taxiways:

 RWY 02C - TWY E10 or E11

 RWY 02L - TWY W8, W9 or W10

 RWY 20C - TWY E1, E2

 RWY 20R - TWY W1, W2

18.2 The pilot-in-command shall not take-off or land without a clearance from Aerodrome Control.

18.3 The pilot-in-command shall not run-up on the runway in use unless authorised by Aerodrome Control. Engine
 run-ups in the holding pan or taxiway holding point clear of the runway in use may be carried out subject to
 approval by Aerodrome Control.

18.4 After landing, the pilot-in-command shall vacate the runway by the shortest suitable route and to contact Singapore
 Ground Movement Control who will issue specific taxi route instructions to its assigned aircraft stand.

18.5 Aircraft with radio communication failure shall vacate the runway and stop on the taxiway and watch for light
 signals from Aerodrome Control.

19 STANDARD INSTRUMENT DEPARTURE (SID) AND STANDARD INSTRUMENT
 ARRIVAL (STAR)

19.1 INTRODUCTION
19.1.1 The SIDs and STARs for Singapore Changi Airport require aircraft to be GNSS-equipped and approved with
 navigation systems that meet the ICAO RNAV-1 navigation specification in accordance to the ICAO Performance
 Based Navigation Manual (Doc 9613).

19.1.2 To avoid proliferation of SIDs and STARs, the basic RNAV SIDs and STARs follow similar tracks as the RNAV-1
 (GNSS) SIDs and STARs using the same set of SIDs and STARs identification.

19.1.3 Operators / pilots who are not approved to operate on the RNAV-1 (GNSS) SIDs and STARs shall notify ATC
 and operate on the alternate basic RNAV SIDs and STARs or expect radar vectors from ATC.

19.2 ARRIVALS
19.2.1 Arriving aircraft from the various ATS routes shall plan for the respective RNAV-1 STARs with the associated
 flight planning requirement as shown below:

 ATS Route RNAV-1 STAR Remarks and Flight Planning Requirement
 A464
 Default STAR shall be ARAMA. When traffic permits and
 (southbound to ARAMA
 WSSS Runway 20 is in use, ATC will offer LELIB STAR.
 Singapore)
 A576
 Southbound flight landing at WSSS are not permitted to flight
 (southbound to Not applicable
 plan via A576.
 Singapore)
 G579 REPOV NIL
 G580 KARTO NIL
 L504 OBDOS NIL
 L642 ELALO ESPOB Q801 Q802 ELALO
 L762 ASUNA NIL


AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-33
 15 AUG 2019

 ATS Route RNAV-1 STAR Remarks and Flight Planning Requirement
 M635 SURGA NIL
 M646 KARTO NIL
 M751 VPK B469 90 DME PU PIBAP PASPU. After PASPU,
 M751 / B469 Not applicable
 expect radar vectors.
 M753 ELALO IPRIX Q802 ELALO
 M767 KARTO NIL
 M774 OBDOS NIL
 M904 ELALO UPRON Q803 ELALO
 N891 ELALO N891 ENREP direct ELALO
 N892 MABAL NIL
 R469 ASUNA NIL
 Note: The LEBAR STAR serves as a transition option to the STARs listed above. This is to facilitate arrivals
 joining downwind to the west of Singapore Changi Airport. ATC may clear arrivals to join the LEBAR STAR
 when air traffic permits.

19.2.2 All RNAV-1 (GNSS) STARs terminate at the initial approach fix (IAF). Arrivals can expect radar vectors to
 intercept the localizer for an ILS approach to the respective runways.

19.3 DEPARTURES
19.3.1 All departing aircraft will be cleared on the appropriate RNAV-1 (GNSS) SIDs and shall climb initially to 3,000ft.

19.3.2 RNAV-1 (GNSS) SIDs will be assigned to departures from Singapore Changi Airport that flight plan on the
 following ATS routes:

 ATS Route RNAV-1 SID Remarks and Flight Planning Requirements
 A457 MASBO NIL
 B470 ANITO NIL
 G580 / M646 TOMAN NIL
 L504 BAVUS NIL
 L625 / N884 TOMAN NIL
 L762 ADMIM NIL
 M635 VENIX NIL
 M751 MERSING NIL
 VMR L642 ENREP M753
 M753 MERSING Expect radar vectors or further ATC clearance on approaching
 VMR.
 VMR DOLOX M771
 M771 MERSING Expect radar vectors or further ATC clearance on approaching
 VMR.
 M774 KADAR NIL
 Not available for flight planning between VMR and LUSMO.
 N884 Not applicable
 Flight plan via TOMAN L625 LUSMO N884.
 VMR ENREP N891
 N891 MERSING Expect radar vectors or further ATC clearance on approaching
 VMR.
 R469 ADMIM NIL
 Flight planning permitted for flights departing from or overflying
 Singapore to destinations north of Kuala Lumpur and Subang
 Y339 AROSO
 Airports. For flights operating at FL220 and below, to flight plan
 on A457.


19.4 VERTICAL AND SPEED RESTRICTIONS
19.4.1 Pilots shall comply with an ATC assigned level. Pilots shall also adhere to the vertical and speed restrictions
 depicted on the SIDs and STARs. ATC clearance will take precedence when the ATC clearance does not allow
 the pilots to adhere to the vertical and speed restrictions depicted on the SIDs and STARs.

19.5 OPERATORS’ PROCEDURES
19.5.1 The operator shall ensure that in-flight procedures, crew manuals and training programmes are established in
 accordance with RNAV-1 (GNSS) navigation requirements.


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-34 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

19.5.2 Pilots shall inform ATC when on-board equipment does not meet the RNAV-1 (GNSS) navigation requirements.
 Pilots can then expect radar vector from ATC.

20 COORDINATES OF SID/STAR WAYPOINTS (WGS84 DATUM)
 Name Latitude Longitude Radius/Distance from VTK Radius/DIstance from SJ
ABVIP 010008N 1035032E VTK R-203.5/ D27.0 SJ R-183.5 / D13.2
ADMIM 005733N 1033033E VTK R-228.4/ D41.2 SJ R-232.8 / D26.1
AGROT 010108N 1035808E VTK R-187.7 / D24.0 SJ R-150.8 / D14.0
AGVAR 014719N 1034145E VTK R-318.8 / D29.8 SJ R-344.3 / D35.3
AKMET 015355N 1034339E VTK R-328.6 / D34.0 SJ R-349.3 / D41.3
AKOMA 014522N 1035443E VTK R-342.0 / D21.4 SJ R-006.2 / D32.0
ALFA 013033N 1034942E VTK R-295.7 / D12.9 SJ R-354.8 / D17.2
ANITO 001700S 1045200E VTK R-153.4 / D113.4 SJ R-146.0 / D108.6
ARAMA 013654N 1030712E VTK R-282.4 / D55.5 SJ R-298.0 / D50.0
AROSO 020846N 1032421E VTK R-319.9 / D57.4 SJ R-334.0/ D61.7
ASUNA 005948N 1030954E VTK R-244.1 / D57.3 SJ R-252.0 / D43.6
ATKAX 000512N 1065946E VTK R-113.9 / D195.5 SJ R-109.7 / D200.6
ATRUM 013256N 1040057E VTK R-357.3 / D8.0 SJ R-026.1 / D21.8
BAVUS 000000N 1090000E VTK R-105.9 / D310.5 SJ R-103.4 / D317.3
BETBA 013302N 1035331E VTK R-316.1/ D11.3 SJ R-006.3 / D19.8
BIBVI 024336N 1040618E VTK R-003.5 / D78.4 SJ R-009.6 / D91.1
BIDUS 013554N 1035755E VTK R-326.0 / D13.2 SJ R-006.9 / D22.6
BIPOP 013122N 1041018E VTK R-054.5 / D11.0 SJ R-046.8 / D26.2
BOBAG 010230N 1032954E VTK R-234.7 / D38.6 SJ R-243.2 / D24.0
BOKIP 010421N 1034353E VTK R-220.5 / D27.0 SJ R-219.5 / D11.6
BTM 010813N 1040758E VTK R-158.2 / D17.9 SJ R-107.0 / D17.5
DIVSA 011105N 1040303E VTK R-172.9 / D13.9 SJ R-100.8 / D11.9
DOGRA 010525N 1041423E VTK R-146.2 / D23.5 SJ R-108.9 / D24.4
DOKTA 012606N 1041040E VTK R-083.0 / D9.4 SJ R-057.0 / D23.2
DONDI 011252N 1035855E VTK R-191.3/ D12.3 SJ R-093.4 / D7.6
DOSNO 004757N 1041409E VTK R-160.8 / D39.0 SJ R-137.8 / D34.1
DOSPA 011459N 1040441E VTK R-161.4 / D10.5 SJ R-082.9 / D13.5
DOVAN 011938N 1041249E VTK R-114.6 / D12.7 SJ R-073.9 / D22.5
ELALO 041240N 1043329E VTK R-010.6 / D169.9 SJ R-013.4 / D183.3
HOSBA 011948N 1042418E VTK R-102.5 / D23.6 SJ R-079.0 / D33.7
IBIVA 011351N 1035637E VTK R-203.1/ D12.0 SJ R-084.3 / D5.3
IBIXU 011621N 1035740E VTK R-203.2 / D9.3 SJ R-064.4 / D7.0
IBULA 005036N 1043600E VTK R-134.5 / D48.7 SJ R-116.8 / D50.2
IGNON 010847N 1041257E VTK R-144.1 / D19.8 SJ R-101.8 / D22.2
IKAGO 003816N 1052931E VTK R-117.7 / D99.8 SJ R-109.5 / D104.4
IKIMA 004314N 1045500E VTK R-127.6 / D67.9 SJ R-115.1 / D70.5
JB (JAYBEE) 013000N 1034242E VTK R-285.1 / D19.3 SJ R-332.6 / D18.6
KADAR 000647S 1074342E VTK R-112.4 / D240.5 SJ R-109.0/ D245.8
KANLA 034556N 1043606E VTK R-013.8 / D144.5 SJ R-016.5 / D158.3
KARTO 011124N 1053343E VTK R-098.3 / D93.5 SJ R-091.1 / D102.6
KEXAS 011019N 1044818E VTK R-107.2 / D49.2 SJ R-093.0 / D57.2
KILOT 030217N 1044023E VTK R-022.0 / D104.5 SJ R-024.4 / D119.0
LAVAX 010950N 1042714E VTK R-120.1 / D30.0 SJ R-095.5 / D36.2
LEDOX 011642N 1035651E VTK R-208.6 / D9.4 SJ R-058.5 / D6.5
LELIB 012729N 1032450E VTK R-274.0 / D36.6 SJ R-298.0 / D30.0
LETGO 011411N 1035548E VTK R-207.3 / D12.1 SJ R-079.1 / D4.6
MABAL 032826N 1051236E VTK R-030.1 / D142.1 SJ R-031.2 / D157.2
MASBO 020248N 1025251E VTK R-299.0 / D78.3 SJ R-310.2 / D76.6
MIBEL 012351N 1020816E VTK R-269.5 / D113.2 SJ R-275.8 / D103.7
NYLON 013657N 1040624E VTK R-023.0 / D13.0 SJ R-032.9 / D30.0
OBDOS 002503N 1065551E VTK R-108.9 / D184.5 SJ R-104.7 / D190.7
PALGA 011059N 1034759E VTK R-223.8 / D19.3 SJ R-235.1 / D4.1


AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-35
 15 AUG 2019

 Name Latitude Longitude Radius/Distance from VTK Radius/DIstance from SJ
PAMSI 010459N 1034845E VTK R-212.3 / D23.6 SJ R-197.2 / D8.7
PASPU 015915N 1040618E VTK R-008.3 / D34.5 SJ R-018.3 / D48.1
PIBAP 023023N 1040618E VTK R-004.4 / D65.3 SJ R-011.1 / D78.1
POSUB 012725N 1040748E VTK R-069.0 / D6.9 SJ R-049.8 / D21.7
PU 012524N 1035600E VTK R-275.2 / D5.4 SJ R-021.1 / D13.0
REMES 004342N 1035735E VTK R-185.2 / D41.2 SJ R-167.9 / D30.2
REPOV 001623N 1040300E VTK R-178.6 / D68.2 SJ R-168.3 / D57.9
RUVIK 011422N 1042033E VTK R-118.8 / D21.9 SJ R-088.0 / D29.2
RWY 02C DER 012152N 1040000E VTK R-203.5 / D3.3 SJ R-046.0 / D12.2
RWY 02L DER 012305N 1035933E VTK R-224.1 / D2.5 SJ R-040.6 / D12.8
RWY 20C DER 011935N 1035902E VTK R-203.3 / D5.8 SJ R-051.5 / D10.0
RWY 20R DER 012047N 1035835E VTK R-213.7 / D4.9 SJ R-044.8 / D10.4
SABKA 015051N 1031713E VTK R-300.4/ D51.2 SJ R-317.7 / D50.7
SAMKO 010530N 1035255E VTK R-203.5 / D21.1 SJ R-168.0 / D8.0
SANAT 010749N 1035930E VTK R-186.1 / D17.1 SJ R-123.7 / D9.9
SJ (SINJON) 011319N 1035120E - -
SURGA 003657S 1063119E VTK R-129.1 / D193.3 SJ R-124.6 / D194.3
TOKIM 012933N 1040315E VTK R-022.7 / D5.0 SJ R-036.7 / D20.1
TOMAN 012147N 1054717E VTK R-091.7 / D106.2 SJ R-085.9 / D116.5
TOPOM 012955N 1040227E VTK R-012.8 / D5.1 SJ R-034.2 / D20.0
VENIX 002156S 1060521E VTK R-130.6 / D163.5 SJ R-125.3 / D164.3
VENPA 002141N 1044955E VTK R-142.3 / D79.6 SJ R-131.2 / D78.1
VMR 022318N 1035218E VTK R-351.2 / D58.8 SJ R-000.9 / D69.6
VTK (TEKONG) 012455N 1040120E - -


21 SID / STAR PHRASEOLOGIES
21.1 SID / STAR phraseologies allow ATC and pilot to communicate and understand detailed clearance information
 that would otherwise require long and potentially complex transmissions. To eliminate safety risk due to a
 mismatch between ATC and pilot expectations when SID / STAR phraseologies are used, and what certain
 terms may mean, ICAO has published Amendment 7-A to Doc 4444, PANS- ATM to harmonise the core
 phraseologies that positively reinforce the lateral, vertical and speed requirements embedded in a SID or STAR
 that will continue to apply, unless explicitly cancelled or amended by the controller.

21.2 The core phraseologies are:

 i. CLIMB VIA SID TO (level)
 ii. DESCEND VIA STAR TO (level)


21.3 These require the aircraft to:

 i. Climb / descend to the cleared level in accordance with published level restrictions;
 ii. Follow the lateral profile of the procedure; and
 iii. Comply with published speed restrictions or ATC-issued speed control instructions as applicable.


21.4 Phraseologies for removal of speed or level restrictions are:

 i. CLIMB VIA SID TO (level), CANCEL SPEED RESTRICTION(S)
 ii. DESCEND VIA STAR TO (level), CANCEL LEVEL RESTRICTION(S) AT (point(s))


21.5 These phraseologies mean that:

 i. The lateral profile of the procedure continue to apply and
 ii. Speed or level restrictions which have not been referred to will continue to apply.


21.6 Phraseologies for variations to the lateral profile of the SID / STAR are:

 i. PROCEED DIRECT (waypoint), or
 ii. VECTORING


© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSS-36 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

21.7 These phraseologies mean that speed and level restrictions associated with the bypassed waypoints are
 cancelled.

21.8 Phraseology to clear aircraft to return to SID / STAR is: REJOIN SID / STAR

21.9 This phraseology means that speed and level restrictions associated with the waypoint where the rejoin occurs,
 as well as those associated with all subsequent waypoints must be complied with.

21.10 The term ‘VIA’ will no longer be used when issuing lateral routing clearances.

22 ARRIVING AIRCRAFT
22.1 The pilot-in-command of an arriving aircraft shall contact the appropriate Approach Control Unit 10 minutes
 before entering the CTR or ATZ.

23 LIGHT AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS
23.1 Light aircraft operations into and out of Singapore Changi Airport may be approved subject to the following
 conditions:

 a. Prior permission has been granted;
 b. Aircraft is suitably equipped;
 c. Pilot is appropriately rated;
 d. Subject to ATC.

23.2 Flight notification shall be given by filing a flight plan.

23.3 All such operations will be regulated in accordance with IFR procedures.

24 SIMULTANEOUS INDEPENDENT PARALLEL APPROACHES

24.1 Introduction
24.1.1 Simultaneous independent parallel approaches will be implemented daily between 0000UTC and 1500UTC to
 optimize runway utilization and enhance air traffic efficiency.

24.2 Procedures for simultaneous independent parallel approaches
24.2.1 To ensure safe operations between aircraft on parallel approaches, Normal Operating Zones (NOZs) are
 established for each extended runway centreline and a No Transgression Zone (NTZ) is established between
 the NOZs.

24.2.2 ATC will vector arriving flights into Singapore Changi Airport from the final waypoint of the respective STARs
 to the respective NOZs.

24.2.3 Within the NOZ, ATC shall provide a minimum vertical separation of 1,000ft or 3NM surveillance separation
 between pairs of aircraft until both aircraft are established on the ILS Localizer course.

24.2.4 ATC is not required to provide separation between aircraft on adjacent ILS Localizers and will monitor aircraft
 for deviation from the approach path.

24.2.5 Aircraft can expect to maintain altitude 3,500ft till Glide Path Interception for Runway 20R / 02L and 2,500ft till
 Glide Path Interception for Runway 20C / 02C. This is to ensure the necessary vertical separation prior to
 establishing on the respective ILS Localizer course.

24.2.6 Aircraft can expect the following radiotelephony phraseology when intercepting the ILS:

 a. to intercept the Localizer before clearing for ILS

 “TURN LEFT (RIGHT) HEADING (three digits) MAINTAIN (altitude) REPORT ESTABLISHED ON
 THE LOCALIZER RUNWAY (number) LEFT (CENTRE / RIGHT)”

 followed by ...

 "MAINTAIN (altitude), CLEARED FOR ILS APPROACH RUNWAY (number) LEFT
 (CENTRE/RIGHT)"

 or

 b. to intercept ILS

 “TURN LEFT (RIGHT) HEADING (three digits) MAINTAIN (altitude) CLEARED FOR ILS
 APPROACH RUNWAY (number) LEFT (CENTRE / RIGHT)”

AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSS-37
 21 MAY 2020
 eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 24.2.7 Aircraft can expect to maintain speed 180kt at base turn or earlier till 8NM from touchdown.

 24.3 Break-out manoeuvre
 24.3.1 When an aircraft is observed to have not established on the appropriate Localizer course or deviated from its
 course towards the NTZ, ATC will instruct the aircraft to return immediately to the correct Localizer course with
 the following radiotelephony phraseology:

 “YOU HAVE CROSSED THE LOCALIZER, TURN LEFT (or RIGHT) IMMEDIATELY AND RETURN TO
 THE LOCALIZER”

 or

 “TURN LEFT (or RIGHT) TO RETURN TO LOCALIZER COURSE”

 24.3.2 When ATC observed aircraft to be penetrating or will penetrate the NTZ, ATC will instruct the aircraft on the
 adjacent Localizer course to alter course to avoid the deviating aircraft with the following radiotelephony
 phraseology:

 “TRAFFIC ALERT, TURN LEFT (or RIGHT) IMMEDIATELY HEADING (degrees), CLIMB AND MAINTAIN
 (altitude)”

 24.4 Pilot notification and conditions for operations
 24.4.1 Simultaneous approaches to parallel runways operation will be broadcasted on ATIS during the active period.

 24.4.2 Simultaneous approaches to the parallel runways will be suspended in the event of adverse weather or any
 other conditions that may affect the safe conduct of such approaches to the parallel runways.



 WSSS AD 2.23 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 1 BIRD CONCENTRATION IN THE VICINITY OF THE AIRPORT
 1.1 A number of varieties of birds are found in Singapore throughout the year. The larger birds commonly found in
 Singapore Changi Airport include the following:
 - cattle egrets (weighing approximately 400g each)
 - intermediate egrets (weighing approximately 500g each)
 - brahminy kites (weighing approximately 600g each)
 - grey herons (weighing approximately 1500g each)
 - white-bellied sea eagle (weighing approximately 2900g each)


  1.2 There could be an increase in bird activities during the migratory months of September to March. During this
 period, migratory birds may use the airport as their feeding ground.

 1.3 Various active dispersal devices generating light, sound or cracking effects are used for bird dispersal to mitigate
 wildlife hazards where necessary within Singapore Changi Airport (such as handheld laser device, long range
 acoustic device, scarecrow, stock-whip, pyrotechnic, etc.).




 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2020
AD 2.WSSS-38 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019


 WSSS AD 2.24 CHARTS RELATED TO AN AERODROME
Location of RWY 02R/20L in relation to RWY 02L/20/R and RWY 02C/20C .............................................. AD-2-WSSS-ADC-1
Aerodrome Chart - ICAO .................................................................................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-ADC-2
Aerodrome Advisory Chart - ICAO .................................................................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-ADC-3
Aerodrome Obstacle Chart - ICAO - TYPE A - RWY 02L/20R ..................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-AOC-1
Aerodrome Obstacle Chart - ICAO - TYPE A - RWY 02C/20C ..................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-AOC-2
Aerodrome Obstacle Chart - ICAO - TYPE B .................................................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-AOC-3
Precision Approach Terrain Chart - ICAO - RWY 02L ................................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-PATC-1
Precision Approach Terrain Chart - ICAO - RWY 20C ................................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-PATC-2
RNAV(GNSS) SIDs and STARs - Introduction

RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - ANITO 6E/ANITO 7F ..................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-1 to 1.1
RNAV(GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - ANITO 6A / ANITO 7B ................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-2 to 2.1
RNAV(GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - ADMIM 1E / ADMIM 3F .................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-SID-3 to 3.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - ADMIM 1A / ADMIM 3B ................................................................ AD-2-WSSS-SID-4 to 4.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - TOMAN 2E / TOMAN 4F ............................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-5 to 5.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - TOMAN 2A / TOMAN 4B .............................................................. AD-2-WSSS-SID-6 to 6.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - BAVUS 1E / BAVUS 3F ................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-SID-7 to 7.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - BAVUS 1A / BAVUS 3B ................................................................ AD-2-WSSS-SID-8 to 8.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - AROSO 2E / AROSO 4F ............................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-9 to 9.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - MASBO 2E / MASBO 4F .......................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-10 to 10.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - AROSO 2A / AROSO 4B ......................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-11 to 11.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - MASBO 2A / MASBO 4B ......................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-12 to 12.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - MERSING 5E / MERSING 8F .................................................. AD-2-WSSS-SID-13 to 13.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - MERSING 5A / MERSING 8B .................................................. AD-2-WSSS-SID-14 to 14.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - VENIX 1A / VENIX 3B ............................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-15 to 15.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - VENIX 1E / VENIX 3F ................................................................ AD-2-WSSS-SID-16 to 16.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02C/20C - KADAR 1A / KADAR 3B ........................................................... AD-2-WSSS-SID-17 to 17.1
RNAV (GNSS) SID - RWY 02L/20R - KADAR 1E / KADAR 3F ............................................................ AD-2-WSSS-SID-18 to 18.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - ARAMA 1A ............................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-1 to 1.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - ASUNA 1A ............................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-2 to 2.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - ARAMA 1B .............................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-STAR-3 to 3.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - ASUNA 1B ............................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-4 to 4.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - KARTO 1A ............................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-5 to 5.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - OBDOS 1A ............................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-6 to 6.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - KARTO 1B ............................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-7 to 7.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - OBDOS 1B .............................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-STAR-8 to 8.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - LELIB 3B .................................................................................. AD-2-WSSS-STAR-9 to 9.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - MABAL 2A ........................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-11 to 11.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - MABAL 2B ........................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-13 to 13.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L - LEBAR 2A .................................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-14 to 14.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R - LEBAR 2B .................................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-15 to 15.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - REPOV 1A ........................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-16 to 16.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - SURGA 1A ........................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-17 to 17.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - REPOV 1B .......................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-18 to 18.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - SURGA 1B .......................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-19 to 19.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 02L/02C - ELALO 1A ............................................................................ AD-2-WSSS-STAR-20 to 20.1
RNAV(GNSS) STAR - RWY 20R/20C - ELALO 1B ........................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-STAR-21 to 21.1
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 02L - ICW ILS/DME ..................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-1
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 02C - ICE ILS/DME ..................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-2
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 20R - ICH ILS/DME ..................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-5
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 20C - ICC ILS/DME ..................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-6
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 20C - VTK DVOR/DME ............................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-7
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 02L - RNAV(GNSS) .......................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-9
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 02C - RNAV(GNSS) ....................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-10
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 20R - RNAV(GNSS) ....................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-11
Instrument Approach Chart - ICAO - RWY 20C - RNAV(GNSS) ....................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-IAC-12
Visual Approach Chart - ICAO ........................................................................................................................... AD-2-WSSS-VAC-1




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD-2-WSSS-ADC-1
 15 SEP 16


 LOCATION OF RUNWAY 02R/20L IN RELATION TO
 RUNWAY 02L/20R AND RUNWAY 02C/20C




 ´



 20
 R

 20
 C 20
 L

 02
 L
 02
 02 R CAUTION :
 C Rwy 02R/20L closed
 due development works.




 CHANGI CONTROL ZONE



© 2016 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore CHANGES : Reprint. AIP AMDT 5/16
PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
 RESTRICTIONS ON TAXIWAYS
 1) Pilots are advised to apply minimum thrust when
 i) turning into TWY P2, P4, P5 and Taxilane P6 while taxiing either northwards or southwards on Taxilane P7, and
 ii) thereafter when taxiing along TWY P2 up to and including the TWY P1/P2 junction.
 This is in view of apron activities at aircraft stands D40, D41, D47, D48, D49, E22, E24, E27 and E28.

 2) TWY SA can only be used by aircraft with maximum wingspan 65m. TWY SA is a one-way live TWY for aircraft taxiing
 into SASCO hangar via RWY 02L. Only tow-out operation is allowed from SASCO hangar into TWY SA and RWY 02L.

 3) Taxiway Q (between TWY WA and TWY P7) can only be used by aircraft with maximum wingspan 65m.

 4) Taxiway centreline along TWY EP between TWY R1 and R3 offset eastward by 2.5m away from aircraft stands
 E7 and F36.

 5) Pilots are advised to apply minimum thrust when turning into taxiway WA from taxilane V6.

 6) Taxilane U4 (behind aircraft stands A18 to A21) can only be used by aircraft with maximum wingspan 61m.

 7) Taxilane Q1 (behind aircraft stands C16 to C19 and between TWY P and TWY Q),
 Taxilane Q2 and Taxilane Q3 (behind aircraft stands D35 to D38 and between TWY P and TWY Q)
 can only be used by aircraft with maximum wingspan 65m.

 8) Taxilane P7 (behind aircraft stands E20 to E22) and Taxilane C6 (behind aircraft stands F50 to F54) can only
 be used by aircraft with maximum wingspan 65m (towing and pushback exempted).

9) Taxilane L5 can only be used by aircraft with maximum wingspan 36m.

10) TWY L8, L9 and L10 can only be used by aircraft with maximum wingspan 65m.

11) Pilots are advised to exercise caution when taxiing near Taxilane L5, L8, L9 and L10.

12) Pilots are advised to apply speed limit of 20 knots when taxiing along TWY SOUTH CROSS 1 and SOUTH CROSS 2.

13) Pilots turning aircraft into aircraft stand A2 or aircraft stand B2 are advised to wait for any aircraft holding at Taxilane V6, at the
 inner cul-de-sac portion of the terminal building to vacate this portion before turning into aircraft stand A2 or aircraft stand B2.

14) TWY M, M4, M5, M6 and M7 are solely for use by Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) aircraft.

15) TWY located western side of RWY 02L/20R, between TWY M5 and TWY M6
 is solely for use by Republic of Singapore Air Force (RSAF) aircraft.




 A radio altimeter operating area is established in the pre-threshold area of Runway 02L/20R and Runway 02C/20C.
 The size of the radio altimeter operating area is 300m length and 120m width.




 AIRCRAFT STANDS WITH SAFEGATE AIRCRAFT DOCKING GUIDANCE SYSTEM.


 TOTAL AIRCRAFT PARKING POSITIONS : 230
 AIP Singapore
 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore




 Advisory 4

 Pilots taxiing on TWY WA are to
 maintain a lookout to ensure
 sufficient wing tip clearance.
 Changes : Taxiways NC1, NC2, NC3 and WC renamed as Taxiways N, P, Q and N2 respectively.




 AERODROME ADVISORY CHART
Taxilanes N1, N2, N3, WD, EA and EC renamed as Taxilanes Q1, Q2, Q3, N1, N4 and N5 respectively.



 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE
 1 SET TRANSPONDER TO MODE A/C CODE 7600
 2 COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE OCCURS IMMEDIATELY AFTER DEPARTURE ON:
 RWY 02C - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO NYLON HOLDING AREA (NHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.
 RWY 20C - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO SAMKO HOLDING AREA (SHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.


 Formal Description Abbreviated Description
 Terminator required

 LEDOX [M203; A015+] - CF N
 To LEDOX on course 203° at or above
 LETGO [A025+; L] - TF N
 1500ft. To LETGO at or above 2500ft, turn
 DIVSA [A040+; K230; L] - TF N
 left. To DIVSA at or above 4000ft, speed
 DOSPA [L] - TF N
 230kts, turn left. To DOSPA, turn left. To VTK
 VTK [A070+] - TF N
 at or above 7000ft. To AKOMA, turn right. To
 AKOMA [R] - TF N
 VMR.
 VMR TF N

 Tabular Descriptions
 Path Waypoint Course Magnetic Turn Speed Navigation
 Fly-Over Altitude
 Term Name °M(°T) Variation Direction Limit Spec
 CF LEDOX - 203(202.5) -0.5 - A015+ - RNAV1
 TF LETGO - 203(202.5) -0.5 L A025+ - RNAV1
 TF DIVSA - 113(112.5) -0.5 L A040+ K230 RNAV1
 TF DOSPA - 023(022.5) -0.5 L - - RNAV1
 TF VTK - 342(341.5) -0.5 - A070+ - RNAV1
 TF AKOMA - 342(341.5) -0.5 R - - RNAV1
 TF VMR - 356(355.5) -0.5 - - - RNAV1

 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE
 1 SET TRANSPONDER TO MODE A/C CODE 7600
 2 COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE OCCURS IMMEDIATELY AFTER DEPARTURE ON:
 RWY 02L - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO NYLON HOLDING AREA (NHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.
 RWY 20R - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO SAMKO HOLDING AREA (SHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.

 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE
 1 SET TRANSPONDER TO MODE A/C CODE 7600
 2 COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE OCCURS IMMEDIATELY AFTER DEPARTURE ON:
 RWY 02C - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO NYLON HOLDING AREA (NHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.
 RWY 20C - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO SAMKO HOLDING AREA (SHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.

 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE
 1 SET TRANSPONDER TO MODE A/C CODE 7600
 2 COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE OCCURS IMMEDIATELY AFTER DEPARTURE ON:
 RWY 02L - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO NYLON HOLDING AREA (NHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.
 RWY 20R - PROCEED STRAIGHT AHEAD TO SAMKO HOLDING AREA (SHA) CLIMBING TO
 THE LAST ASSIGNED ALTITUDE, THEREAFTER REFER TO SINGAPORE AIP ON
 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS FAILURE PROCEDURE.



 WSSL AD 2.2 AERODROME GEOGRAPHICAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE DATA
 1 ARP Coordinates and Site at AD 012501.04N 1035203.52E
 2 Direction and distance from (city) 006°, 14.6km from city centre (The Fullerton Hotel, Singapore)
 3 Elevation/Reference Temperature 14 M (46ft) / 33.7°C
 4 Geoid Undulation 9.78 M
 5 MAG VAR 0°26' E (2015)
 6 AD Administration, Address, Telephone, Address:
 Telefax, AFS CHANGI AIRPORT GROUP (S) PTE LTD
 SELETAR AIRPORT
 21 Seletar Aerospace Road 1
 Singapore 797405

 TEL: (65)64812909, Fax: (65)64833044 (AIS)
 TEL: (65)64812893, Fax: (65)64831656 (Control Tower)
 TEL: (65)64815077, 97533361
 FAX: (65)64831754 (Airside Operations)

 AFS: WSSLYDYX

 7 Types of Traffic Permitted IFR and VFR
 8 Remarks a. Scheduled Closure Periods for RWY 03/21:
 see AIP section WSSL AD 2.12 item 12 i).

 b. Night flight restriction for noise abatement purpose (see AIP
 section WSSL AD 2.21).

 c. PPR for aircraft not equipped with RTF.

 d. A subsonic jet aircraft, unless otherwise exempted, is not
 permitted to operate in Singapore unless it possesses a noise
 certificate stating that it meets the noise standards of ICAO
 Annex 16, Volume 1, Chapter 3, or equivalent. The noise
 certificate may also take the form of a suitable statement
 contained in another document approved by the State of Registry
 of the aircraft.

 e. Direct transit area. Overnight transit in Singapore city.

 f. All arriving and departing aircraft are required to appoint a
 licensed Ground Handling Agent (GHA). List of Seletar GHAs
 can be downloaded from URL - http://www.seletarairport.com/
 ground-handling-agents-at-seletar-airport.html

 g. For non-scheduled flights, all passengers and crews are required
 to clear Customs and Immigration at Seletar Business Aviation
 Centre (SBAC)




© 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 02/2020
AD 2.WSSL-2 AIP Singapore
28 FEB 2019


 WSSL AD 2.3 OPERATIONAL HOURS
 1 Aerodrome Administration H24 5 ATS Reporting Office H24
 2 Customs and Immigration H24 6 MET Briefing Office H24
 3 Health and Sanitation H24 7 Air Traffic Services H24
 4 AIS Self-Briefing Office H24 8 Apron Control Office H24




 WSSL AD 2.4 HANDLING SERVICES AND FACILITIES
 1 Cargo Handling Facilities Provided by handling agent.
 2 Fuel / Oil Types AVGAS 100LL, JET A1
 3 Fuelling Facilities / Capacity SUN/MON to THU/FRI BTN 2330-1400;
 SAT, SUN and Public holidays BTN 0030-0930
 Contact during operating hours:
 TEL: (65)68538320 (Operations Room)
 Contact after operating hours:
 TEL: (65)91130816 (H24 Operations Mobile)
 FAX: (65)64839246
 Group email:
 GX-SAV-Seletar-Operations24by7@shell.com
 PPP link:
 http://www.shell.com/business-customers/aviation/ppp.html
 4 Hangar space for visiting aircraft By arrangement with handling agent.
 5 Repair facilities for visiting aircraft By arrangement with handling agent.
 6 Remarks NIL




 WSSL AD 2.5 PASSENGER FACILITIES
 1 Hotels NIL
 2 Restaurants Public area of terminal building
 3 Transportation Handling agent provides its own transport service for passengers and
 crew between airport and city. Public buses and private hired taxis
 are available at airport terminal.
 4 Medical Facilities NIL
 5 Bank and Post Office NIL
 6 Tourist Office NIL
 7 Remarks Internet address : http://www.seletarairport.com /
 for airport and flight information, facilities and services.




 WSSL AD 2.6 RESCUE AND FIRE FIGHTING SERVICES
 1 AD category for fire fighting CAT7 (No facilities for foaming of runways).
 2 Rescue equipment Adequately provided as recommended by ICAO.
 3 Capability for removal of disabled aircraft Up to B757-200.
 Contact Seletar Airside Operations at:
 +65 64815077 or +65 97533361
 4 Remarks All Airport Emergency Service personnel are trained in rescue and
 fire-fighting as well as medical first-aid.




 WSSL AD 2.7 SEASONAL AVAILABILITY - CLEARING
 The aerodrome is available throughout the year


AIP AMDT 02/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-3
 15 AUG 2019


WSSL AD 2.8 APRONS, TAXIWAYS AND CHECK LOCATIONS/POSITIONS DATA
 1 Apron surface and strength Surface: Bituminous concrete (aircraft stand C7)
 Strength: PCN44/F/C/X/T
 Surface: Concrete (all other aircraft stands)
 Strength: PCN41/R/C/W/T
 2 Taxiway width, surface and strength Width: 23 M (75.5ft), 18 M (59.1ft)TWY EC4, EC5 AND EC6
 8 M (26.2ft) TWY WS1 and WS2
 Surface: Bituminous concrete
 Strength: PCN44/F/C/X/T

 3 Remarks : NIL




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSL-4 AIP Singapore
05 DEC 2019


WSSL AD 2.9 SURFACE MOVEMENT GUIDANCE AND CONTROL SYSTEM AND
 MARKINGS
 SURFACE MOVEMENT GUIDANCE AND CONTROL SYSTEM AND MARKINGS
 1 Use of aircraft stand ID signs, TWY guidelines Taxiing guidance signs at all intersections with TWY and RWY at all
 and visual docking/parking guidance system holding positions. Guidelines at apron. Nose-in guidance at aircraft
 of aircraft stands stands.
 2 RWY and TWY markings and LGT RWY LGT:
 refer to page WSSL AD 2-5 for details.
 RWY Turn Pad LGT / Markings: Only AVBL at THR RWY 03.
 Yellow turnpad centreline.

 TWY LGT:
 TWY Edge LGT: Blue LGT, inset, elevated and omni-directional.
 TWY Centreline LGT: Green LGT, fixed.
 Intermediate Holding Position LGT: Yellow LGT, fixed, unidirectional.
 TWY markings: Yellow TWY centreline.

 The fixed green taxiway centreline lights and fixed unidirectional yellow
 intermediate holding position lights shall be switched on between
 sunset and sunrise or during periods of poor visibility. ATC will continue
 to verbalise the taxi route as per current practice. Pilots shall continue
 to adhere strictly to the taxi clearances issued by ATC at all times.

 In the event that the fixed green taxiway centreline lights and fixed
 unidirectional yellow intermediate holding position lights become
 unserviceable, pilots shall taxi following the single continuous yellow
 taxiway centreline markings and intermediate holding position markings
 (single broken line laid across the entire width of the taxiway) as per
 mode of operations during VMC daylight hours.

 MARKING AIDS:
 Threshold, touchdown zone, centreline stripes and RWY designation.
 RWY width outline from bituminous concrete surface by white lines.

 AIMING POINT MARKINGS:
 RWY 03: coincident with PAPI origin located 423.542m from THR
 respectively.
 RWY 21: coincident with PAPI origin located 271.279m from THR
 respectively.

 3 Stop Bars Stop Bars: Red LGT across taxiways W1, W2, W3, E1, E2, E3 and
 E4, flushed with TWY surface and are supplemented with elevated
 RWY guard LGT at the sides.
 By default, red stop bar lights remain on unless deselected by the
 runway controller. When deselected, these stop bar lights will
 re-activate automatically after 45 seconds. Pilots shall not cross any
 lighted red stop bar lights.
 Pilots and drivers shall enter / cross the runway only when both the
 following conditions are met:
 The crew have
 a) received positive ATC clearance to enter / cross the runway or
 taxiway, and
 b) observed that the red stop bar lights are turned off.
 Crash Alarm Stop Bars: Red LGT across junctions of EP, EC4 and
 EH2 TWY, flushed with TWY surface.
 (Note to pilots and tow-crew: Slow down when taxiing / towing on TWY
 EP between TWY EC4 and abeam the Control Tower. Keep a lookout
 for emergency vehicles that may cross the taxiway to respond to
 emergency on the RWY.)




AIP AMDT 07/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
 AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-5
 21 MAY 2020
 eaip-amdtver-date-2020-05-06T07-27-14-831




 SURFACE MOVEMENT GUIDANCE AND CONTROL SYSTEM AND MARKINGS
  4 Remarks a. Aircraft operators/ground handlers shall be responsible for the
 safe and smooth operations of aircraft at the aircraft stands.

 b. A ground handler shall be at the aircraft stand when the aircraft
 is ready to depart and ensure that the area around the aircraft
 is clear of vehicles, equipment and personnel before aircraft
 engines are started. When the pilot signals that he is ready to
 taxi, the ground handler shall marshal the aircraft out of the
 aircraft stand. All personnel, tow tugs and equipment shall be
 cleared from the aircraft stand and red chevron markings on the
 adjacent aircraft stands before self-power out can commence.

 c. All arriving aircrafts will be assigned an aircraft stand. Aircraft
 with wingspan larger than 15m shall be marshalled into the
 aircraft stand by a ground handler.

 d. Code A, Code B and Code C aircraft can taxi into aircraft stands
 C1, C2, C3, C4, C5 and C6 from the north or the south via TWY
 WA.

 e. Only Code A aircraft, Code B aircraft, aircraft type Global
 Express (GLEX), Global 5000 (GL5T), Global 6000 (GL6T),
 Global Express XRS (GLEX), Global 7500 (GL7T), Fokker 50
 (F50), Fokker 70 (F70), Fokker 100 (F100), Gulfstream 500
 (GLF5), Gulfstream 550 (GLF5), Gulfstream 650 (GLF6),
 ATR 42 (AT45 & AT46), ATR 72 (AT75 & AT76), DASH 7
 (DHC7) and Falcon 7X (FA7X) are allowed to taxi out from
 aircraft stands C1, C2, C3, C4, C5 and C6 subjected to (g), (h)
 or (i).

 f. All other aircraft not listed in (e) departing from C1, C2, C3, C4,
 C5 and C6 are required to push back onto TWY WA or tow
 forward onto TWY WP.

 g. Aircraft departing stand C1 shall taxi out towards the north only.

 h. Aircraft departing stand C6 shall taxi out towards the south only.

 i. Aircraft departing stands C2, C3, C4 and C5 are allowed to taxi
 out towards the south or the north.

 j. Aircraft parking stand C7 is unable to accommodate aircraft
 with wingspan larger than 28.35m.

 k. No Refuelling is permitted for aircraft parked at aircraft stand
 C7.

 l. Aircraft types up to B757-200 (no winglets) can taxi into aircraft
 stands D50, D51, D52, D53, D54, D55 and D56.

 m. Only Code A aircraft, Code B aircraft and Code C aircraft, Airbus
 A320 family (A318, A319, A320, A321), ATR 42 (AT45 & AT46),
 ATR 72 (AT75 & AT76), DASH 7 (DHC 7), Embraer 190STD
 (E190), Embraer ERJ 135 (E135), Falcon 7X (FA7X),
 Fokker 50, Fokker 70 - all, Fokker 100 - all, Global Express
 (GLEX), Global 5000 (GL5T), Global 6000 (GL6T), Global
 Express XRS (GLEX), Global 7500 (GL7T), Gulfstream 500
 (GLF5), Gulfstream 550 (GLF5), Gulfstream 650 (GLF6) and
 Q400 (DH8) are allowed to taxi out from aircraft stands D50,
 D51, D52, D53, D54, D55 and D56.

 n. Aircraft type C130 is restricted to tow in operations at aircraft
 stand D1, D2 and D50. Aircraft is required to shut down at
 designated shut down area and be towed to aircraft stand D1,
 D2 and D50.

 o. Only aircraft type ATR72 (AT75 & AT76) and aircrafts with
 wingspan less than 27.2m can be parked at aircraft stands C60,
 C61 and C62.


 © 2020 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2020
AD 2.WSSL-6 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

 SURFACE MOVEMENT GUIDANCE AND CONTROL SYSTEM AND MARKINGS
 Aircraft Pushback / Tow Forward Procedures Phraseology Used By
 Stands SELETAR GROUND
C1, PUSHBACK
C2, The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY WA to face North Pushback approved, to face
C3, (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand lead-in North (or South)
C4, line and the centreline of TWY WA. The aircraft may breakaway from there.
C5,
C6 TOW FORWARD
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be towed forward onto the centreline of TWY Tow forward approved, to face
 WP to face North (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the North (or South)
 aircraft tow-out line and TWY WP centreline. The aircraft may breakaway
 from there.

C7 PUSHBACK
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY WA to face North Pushback approved, to face
 (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand lead-in North (or South)
 line and the centreline of TWY WA. The aircraft may breakaway from there.

C50, PUSHBACK
C51, The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY ES to face North Pushback approved, to face
C52 (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand lead-in North (or South)
 line (or pushback line) and the centreline of TWY ES. The aircraft may
 breakaway from there.

C60, Pushback to face North
C61 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EC to face North Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is abeam the centreline of aircraft stand C62. The aircraft North.
 may break away from there.

 Pushback to face East
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EC2 to face East Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is at the “EOP C60/C61” position. The aircraft may break East.
 away from there.

C62 Pushback to face North
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EC to face North Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is at the “EOP C62” position. The aircraft may break away North.
 from there.

 Pushback to face South
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EC to face South Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is abeam the centreline of aircraft stand C61. The aircraft South.
 may break away from there.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-7
 15 AUG 2019

 Aircraft Pushback / Tow Forward Procedures Phraseology Used By
 Stands SELETAR GROUND
D1, PUSHBACK AND TOW FORWARD TO TWY WP
D2 The tow-crew shall request from Seletar Ground (vehicular) on 122.9MHz for 1) Tow approved to intermediate
(for B757-200 departure pushback approval. Upon receiving the approval, the aircraft shall holding position on TWY WP
and C130) be pushed back onto TWY WA to face South until its nose wheel is at the short of TWY W1 to face North;
 intersection of the aircraft stand lead-in line and TWY WA centreline. The or
 aircraft shall then be towed forward to TWY WP until the tow tug towing the
 aircraft is at the intermediate holding position short of TWY W1 (see chart AD 2) Tow approved to intermediate
 2.WSSL-9) or TWY W3 (see chart AD 2.WSSL-10). Once the tow tug is holding position on TWY WP
 disengaged, the aircraft will request start up approval from Seletar Ground short of TWY W3 to face South
 (aircraft) on 121.6MHz. The aircraft shall breakaway from there.

 FOR LANDED B757-200/C130 AIRCRAFT EXITING VIA TWY W1
 After landing, B757-200/C130 aircraft exiting TWY W1 shall stop when its Not applicable
 nose is at the information marking “B757/C130 HOLD FOR TOW” on TWY
 W1. The aircraft shall be on tow starting from this point onwards until they
 park inside the aircraft stands.

 FOR LANDED B757-200/C130 AIRCRAFT EXITING VIA TWY W2
 After landing, B757-200/C130 aircraft exiting TWY W2 shall stop when its Not applicable
 nose is at the information marking “B757/C130 HOLD FOR TOW” on TWY
 W2. The aircraft shall be on tow starting from this point onwards until they
 park inside the aircraft stands.

 FOR LANDED B757-200/C130 AIRCRAFT EXITING VIA TWY W3
 After landing, B757-200/C130 aircraft exiting TWY W3 shall stop when its Not applicable
 nose is at the information marking “B757/C130 HOLD FOR TOW” on TWY
 W3. The aircraft shall be on tow starting from this point onwards until they
 park inside the aircraft stands.

D50 Pushback to face North
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EN to face North Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand pushback line North.
 and TWY EN centreline. The aircraft shall then be towed forward until its nose
 wheel is abeam the centreline of aircraft stand D51. The aircraft may break
 away from there.

 Pushback to face South
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EN to face South Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand pushback line South.
 and TWY EN centreline. The aircraft may break away from there.

 Tow Forward
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be towed forward onto TWY EP to face North Tow forward approved, to face
 (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft lead-out line North (or South)
 and TWY EP centreline. The aircraft may break away from there.

D51, Pushback
D52, The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EN to face North Pushback approved, to face
D53, (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand North (or South).
D54, pushback line and TWY EN centreline. The aircraft may break away from
D55 there.

 Tow Forward
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be towed forward onto TWY EP to face North Tow forward approved, to face
 (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft lead-out line North (or South)
 and TWY EP centreline. The aircraft may break away from there.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSL-8 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

 Aircraft Pushback / Tow Forward Procedures Phraseology Used By
 Stands SELETAR GROUND
D56 Pushback to face North
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EN to face North Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand pushback line North.
 and TWY EN centreline. The aircraft may break away from there.

 Pushback to face South
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be pushed back onto TWY EN to face South Pushback approved, to face
 until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft stand pushback line South.
 and TWY EN centreline. The aircraft shall then be towed forward until its nose
 wheel is abeam the centreline of aircraft stand D55. The aircraft may break
 away from there.

 Tow Forward
 The aircraft (on idle thrust) shall be towed forward onto TWY EP to face North Tow forward approved, to face
 (or South) until its nose wheel is at the intersection of the aircraft lead-out line North (or South)
 and TWY EP centreline. The aircraft may break away from there.




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-9
 15 AUG 2019




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSL-10 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-11
 15 AUG 2019


 WSSL AD 2.10 AERODROME OBSTACLES
 IN APPROACH / TKOF AREAS IN CIRCLING AREA AND AT AD
 Obstacle type Obstacle type
RWY/Area
 Elevation Coordinates Elevation Coordinates
affected
 Markings/LGT Markings/LGT
 a b c a b
RWY 03 1) Mast HGT Approximately 1525m from THR 1) Power station 012656.8N1035251.7E
TKOF ranging from 98ft RWY 21 chimney 407ft
RWY 21 AMSL and above AMSL
APCH in shipping
 channel
 2) Steel structure 012709.78N1035318.74E 2) Radio mast 012258.8N1035113.8E
 300ft AMSL 217ft AMSL
 3) Chimney 012700.18N1035321.93E 3) Radio masts 012454N 1035300E
 276ft AMSL 184ft AMSL
 4) Chimney 012651.81N1035330.23E 4) Radar tower 012537.79N1035306.74E
 273ft AMSL 177ft AMSL (reclaimed land north of RWY)
 marked/LGTD
 5) Chimney 012646.99N1035331.46E 5) Mobile cranes within area bounded by
 286ft AMSL 420ft AMSL 012711.78N1035223.74E
 012729.78N1035223.74E
 012729.78N1035247.74E
 012656.78N1035247.74E
 6) Mobile cranes within area bounded by 6) Glide Path 012512N1035215E
 330ft AMSL 012627.24N1035313.00E Antenna
 012607.79N1035333.95E 72ft AMSL
 012614.23N1035337.07E
 012623.93N1035316.02E
 7) Silo, 012659.1N1035325.3E
 342 ft AMSL,
 mark and lighted
Obstacles in the approach / TKOF areas, circling area and at the aerodrome are shown on the AOC and VAC




 WSSL AD 2.11 METEOROLOGICAL INFORMATION PROVIDED
 1 Associated MET Office Seletar
 2 Hours of service H24
 3 Office responsible for TAF preparation, Periods of validity Singapore Changi,
 30 hours
 4 Type of landing forecast, Interval of issuance METAR, SPECI and AD warning of adverse weather (H24).
 TREND NIL.
 5 Briefing/consultation provided NIL
 6 Flight documentation, Language(s) used Tabular forms, English
 7 Charts/other information available for briefing or NIL
 consultation
 8 Supplementary equipment available for providing MDWR (Met Doppler Weather Radar)
 information Maintenance Period: Second WED of every month between
 0200-0900.
 In case of bad weather, THU following the second WED
 between 0200-0900.
 9 ATS units provided with information NIL
 10 Additional information TEL: 64815978 (MET Office)


 i) Scheduled closure period for RWY 03/21

 a. BTN 1600-2300 on first and third FRI of every month or the following FRI if the first or third FRI is a
 public holiday. RWY CLSD to all TFC except medevac and EMERG flights. Advance notice of 30
 minutes is required for EMERG reopening of RWY.

 b. BTN 0500-0515, 1030-1045, 1600-1615 and 2300-2315 daily for RWY inspection. Aircraft to expect
 delay.
Not Applicable
 ii) A lighted RWY turn pad with centreline marking is provided at the threshold of RWY 03 which is able to
 serve aircraft up to B757-200.

 iii) Orange frangible posts are positioned along the boundary 90m on either sides of the RWY centreline
 demarcating the boundary for grass cutting and other maintenance works.

 iv) Wind Direction Indicators (WDIs) are located at both northern and southern ends of the RWY.



 WSSL AD 2.17 ATS AIRSPACE
 1 Designation and Lateral Limits SELETAR CTR
 012703N 1035009E 012825N 1035009E 012900N 1035425E 012534N
 1035454E thence along international boundary to 012556N 1035326E 012227N
 1035158E 012232N 1035016E 012327N 1034922E 012607N 1035053E and
 thence an arc of 2NM radius (centred at position 012527N 1034856E) joining
 012607N 1035053E and 012703N 1035009E

 SELETAR CONTROL ZONE A
 Portion of Seletar CTR within Singapore FIR is known as Seletar CTR ‘A’.

 SELETAR CONTROL ZONE ‘B’
 The part in the Kuala Lumpur FIR is known as Seletar CTR ‘B’ and is bounded
 by 012825N 1035009E, 012900N 1035425E, 012534N 1035454E thence along
 the Peninsular Malaysia/Singapore international boundary to 012808N 1035010E
 to 012825N 1035009E from GND/sea level to 3,000ft. It will be activated only
 with prior approval of Johor Bahru ATC. (see chart AD-2-WSSL-VFR-1).

 2 Vertical Limits SELETAR CONTROL ZONE A
 SFC to 4 500ft ALT
 Maximum Usable ALT 4 000ft

 SELETAR CONTROL ZONE B
 SFC to 3 000ft ALT

 3 Airspace Classification C

 4 ATS Unit Call sign SELETAR TOWER
 Language(s)
 English

 5 Transition Altitude 11000 FT (3,350m)

 6 Remarks NIL




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-15
 15 AUG 2019


 WSSL AD 2.18 ATS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
 Service Frequency P-Pri Hours of
 Call sign Remarks
 designation S-Sec operation
 TWR Seletar P118.45 MHz
 Tower S130.2 MHz
 270.4 MHz
 Seletar 121.6 MHz H24
 Ground 122.9 MHz for vehicular movements
 ACC Singapore P123.7 MHz For AWY B469, G334, R208, L625, L629, L635,
 Radar S127.3 MHz L642, M751, M753, M758, M761, M763, M771,
 133.8 MHz 0000-1430 N884, N891 and N892
 P133.25 MHz For AWY A457, A464, A576, B466, L762, R325
 S135.8 MHz (all northbound) and R469.
 P134.2 MHz For AWY G580, M646 and M767
 S133.35 MHz
 P134.4 MHz For AWY A464, A576, G579 (all southbound),
 S128.1 MHz B470, G220, N875 and in area in the immediate
 255.4 MHz vicinity of Singapore
 Radar Maintenance Period:
 Monthly - every third SAT BTN 1601-2359
 Singapore 6556 kHz SEA 1. SATCOM SER AVBL
 Radio 11297 kHz SSB suppressed carrier
 5655 kHz H24 SEA 2. SATCOM SER AVBL
 8942 kHz SSB suppressed carrier
 11396 kHz
 6556 kHz SEA 3. SATCOM SER AVBL
 SSB suppressed carrier
 APP Singapore P120.3 MHz TAR:
 Approach S124.6 MHz a) Intermediate APCH to Singapore Changi AP
 and other airports in Singapore
 b) DEP from all airports in Singapore

 Maintenance Period: Monthly:
 every first SAT BTN 1601-2359 (ASR I) and
 every fourth SAT BTN 1601-2359 (ASR II)
 Seletar 126.025 MHz 0000-1500 TAR - Intermediate and final approach to Seletar
 Approach Airport




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSL-16 AIP Singapore
10 OCT 2019


 WSSL AD 2.19 RADIO NAVIGATION AND LANDING AIDS
 Position of
Type of Aid and Transmitting DME Transmitting Antenna
 IDENT Frequency OPR Hour
 Variation Antenna Elevation / Remarks
 Coordinates
 1 2 3 4 5 6&7
 JAYBEE JB 400 KHz H24 012959.77N BRG 298° DIST 19.6km from
 NDB (80w) 1034241.82E ARP Seletar. Coverage 50NM.
 Unusable 285°-060° beyond
 20NM.
 Bearing fluctuations greater than
 +/- 10° may be observed in
 sector 138° to 148°.
 EM: A0/A2

 KONG KONG KK 286 KHz H24 013117.76N BRG 049° DIST 17.7km from
 NDB (70w) 1035923.69E ARP Seletar. Coverage 50NM.
 Unusable 270°-010° beyond
 30NM.
 Bearing fluctuations greater than
 +/- 10° may be observed in
 sector 048° to 052°.
 EM: A0/A2

 SELETAR SEL 220 KHz H24 012448.50N BRG 152° DIST 0.44km from
 NDB 1035210.16E ARP Seletar. Coverage 50NM.
 EM: A0/A2




 WSSL AD 2.20 LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
1 LOCAL FLYING RESTRICTIONS:
1.1 Fixed-wing aircraft operations including circuit flying and training operations are restricted to the west of Seletar
 runway. Helicopter operations are confined to the west of Seletar runway between sunset and sunrise, subject
 to the restrictions in paragraph 1.3 below.

1.2 Circuit Heights:

 Light aircraft 800ft (west of Seletar runway only);

 Other aircraft 1,000ft - 1,500ft (west of Seletar runway only);

 Helicopter-only area east of runway up to 600ft AGL

1.3 Circuit Flying and Training Operations are not permitted between 1400-2300 daily.

1.4 Pilots are required to keep clear of PAYA LEBAR CTR and SEMBAWANG ATZ.

2 TEST/TRAINING FLIGHTS
2.1 Flight notification shall be given prior to departure. Flight notification by means of RTF should be avoided.

2.2 For circuits and landings or flights to Light Aircraft Training Areas A, B and C, locally based operators shall
 submit details of their flight by electronic mail using the Seletar Test / Training Form which can be retrieved from
 webpage:

 https://aim-sg.caas.gov.sg

2.3 For test/currency maintenance flight in the fixed-wing circuit, the operator shall contact Seletar Tower Manager,
 giving at least 2 days’ advance notice from the date of flight. The Tower Manager will then liaise with the host
 slot-time operator during which the test/currency maintenance flight is to be conducted. The advance notice will
 enable the host slot-time operator to adjust its training programme to accommodate the flight.




AIP AMDT 06/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-17
 15 AUG 2019

2.4 Flight details should contain the following information:

 a. Aircraft identification;
 b. Name and contact number of pilot;
 c. Number of persons on board;
 d. ETD;
 e. Flight duration;
 f. Total endurance;
 g. Area of flight (Light Aircraft Training Areas A, B or C)

2.5 For flights other than those classified in para 2.2 and 2.3 above, a flight plan shall be filed.

2.6 Light aircraft engaged in flying training shall maintain VHF communication.

2.7 Light aircraft flying on airways shall, in addition to radio communication apparatus, be equipped with a radio
 compass.

2.8 All fixed wing aircraft are to use the runway for take-off and landing. After landing, the pilot-in-command shall
 vacate the runway as soon as possible via TWY W1, W2 or W3, or in accordance with instructions from Aerodrome
 Control.

2.9 Fixed-wing circuit patterns are left hand for RWY 03 and right hand for RWY 21 (arrival and departure).

2.10 All light aircraft training flights shall not descend below 200ft on Seletar QNH when on final approach to land or
 for a touch-and-go landing unless a landing/touch-and-go clearance has been obtained from ATC. If no such
 clearance has been obtained from ATC by 200ft the aircraft shall break-off its approach and carry out a go-around
 procedure.

3 WRONG APPROACHES AND LANDINGS OF AIRCRAFT BOUND FOR SELETAR
 AERODROME AND SEMBAWANG MILITARY AERODROME

3.1 INTRODUCTION
3.1.1 The attention of all pilots is drawn to the existence of RSAF Sembawang Aerodrome, 3NM to the west of Seletar
 Aerodrome. The runway at Sembawang is orientated in almost the same direction as the runway at Seletar
 Aerodrome i.e. 03/21 for Seletar Aerodrome and 05/23 for Sembawang. Due to the close proximity of these two
 runways, pilots are cautioned against mistaking Sembawang Aerodrome for Seletar Aerodrome and thus making
 an inadvertent visual landing or approach to land at Sembawang.

3.1.2 Erroneous approaches or landings usually occurred in marginal weather conditions. In almost every instance,
 the prevailing weather at the time of the incident contributed towards a hasty and erroneous identification of the
 correct aerodrome.

3.1.3 There is intensive local flying at both aerodromes during the day and night. As pilot training is the major activity
 at both aerodromes, the risk of collision is very great if a wrong approach or landing is made at either of the two
 aerodromes.

3.2 POINTS TO BEAR IN MIND WHEN APPROACHING SELETAR AD OR SEMBAWANG
 AD
3.2.1 The following points are highlighted to serve as a guide to assist pilots in identifying Seletar AD or Sembawang
 AD and should be remembered and followed:

 a. The runways at Seletar and Sembawang are almost identically aligned. Extra vigilance, therefore, is
 required when approaching either aerodrome, or when commencing an approach to land.
 b. Make full use of available navigational and landing aids, and positively identify each aid used.
 c. Adhere strictly to the joining instructions issued by ATC.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSL-18 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

3.3 AERODROME CHARACTERISTICS OF SELETAR AND SEMBAWANG AERODROMES
 Aeronautical Significant Differences
 Seletar AD Sembawang AD
 Service and Remarks
 RWY 03/21 05/23 Exercise caution due to
 Designation almost similar RWY
 alignment
 Location Adjacent to the Straits of Johor on the eastern APRX 3NM west Seletar RWY commences
 bank of Seletar River. Seletar AD is situated of Seletar AD and almost from the edge of the
 APRX 3NM NW of Paya Lebar AP. 3NM inland from shore. Also note that
 the Straits of Johor Sembawang AD is inland and
 not next to the sea.
 RWY LGT White/Amber RWY edge LGT NIL Sembawang AD has no RWY
 LGT
 Approach Simple approach LGT available for RWY 03 NIL No visual approach slope
 LGT approach, consisting of 4 rows of barettes and indicator at Sembawang AD
 1 crossbar (5th row).
 RWY 03 - white, elevated, uni-directional
 approach LGT and white, omni-directional
 CGL on top of elevated approach LGT.
 Approach LGT available for RWY 21
 approach, consisting of 1 row of inset
 approach LGT (1st row) and 4 rows of
 barettes.
 RWY 21 - white, inset and elevated,
 uni-directional approach LGT and white,
 omni-directional CGL on top of elevated
 approach LGT.
 Simple touchdown zone LGT for both RWY
 03 and RWY 21 approach consisting of 2
 pairs of white, inset, uni-directional LGT
 IBN FLG G ‘SL’ EV 7 SEC FLG R ‘AG’ EV 20 NIL
 SEC HN and IMC
 ABN ALTN FLG W G EV 2.5 SEC NIL Sembawang AD has no ABN
 Parking Apron Relatively large aircraft parking apron to the Small aircraft Differences in size and
 west of RWY, connected to the RWY by three parking apron location of the parking apron
 taxiways




AIP AMDT 05/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-19
 15 AUG 2019


 WSSL AD 2.21 NOISE ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
1.1 To alleviate the problem of noise, no flights are permitted between 1400-2300, other than MEDEVAC and
 emergency flights.

1.2 All aircraft on AWY G579 between SINJON (SJ) and JAYBEE (JB) shall operate at/above 5,000ft.

1.3 When overflying residential areas around Seletar Airport, aircraft are to adhere to the minimum altitudes specified
 within the Noise Abatement Areas.

1.4 Noise Abatement Area 1 is bounded by the following points, and aircraft are to maintain a minimum altitude of
 1,500ft when overflying the area.

 Lateral Limits of Noise Abatement Area 1
 POINT COORDINATES
 A 012551.0N 1035044.3E
 B 012549.9N 1035059.2E
 C 012522.3N 1035102.3E
 D 012458.3N 1035044.4E
 E 012443.4N 1035005.3E
 A 012551.0N 1035044.3E

1.5 Noise Abatement Area 2 is bounded by the following points, and aircraft are to maintain a minimum altitude of
 1,500ft when overflying the area.

 Lateral Limits of Noise Abatement Area 2
 Point Coordinates
 F 012335.6N 1035006.0E
 G 012324.6N 1035023.1E
 H 012316.4N 1035029.7E
 N 012250.1N 1034959.9E
 O 012315.1N 1034937.1E
 P 012322.4N 1034942.2E
 Q 012317.5N 1034957.3E
 F 012335.6N 1035006.0E

1.6 Noise Abatement Area 3 is bounded by the following points, and aircraft are to maintain a minimum altitude of
 700ft when overflying the area.

 Lateral Limits of Noise Abatement Area 3
 Point Coordinates
 H 012316.4N 1035029.7E
 I 012252.7N 1035038.2E
 J 012237.4N 1035040.4E
 K 012236.0N 1035051.0E
 L 012231.1N 1035051.8E
 M 012232.2N 1035016.2E
 N 012250.1N 1034959.9E
 H 012316.4N 1035029.7E




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSL-20 AIP Singapore
10 OCT 2019

1.7 The map below shows the locations of Noise Abatement Areas 1, 2 and 3 within Seletar Control Zone.




1.8 Aircraft which are unable to adhere to the minimum altitudes specified over the noise abatement areas are not
 allowed to operate at Seletar Airport.

1.9 No engine run up shall be permitted between 1400-2300.



 WSSL AD 2.22 FLIGHT PROCEDURES
1 PROCEDURES FOR ARRIVALS INTO SELETAR AERODROME

1.1 Introduction
1.1.1 Aircraft on VFR flight plan, routing via Tebrau City Mall (013259N1034748E) to Seletar shall follow the joining
 procedures as described in paragraph 1.2 and illustrated in charts AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1, AD-2-WSSL-VAC-2
 and AD-2-WSSL-VFR-1.

1.1.2 Aircraft returning from Light Aircraft Training Areas shall follow the joining procedures as described in paragraph
 1.3 and illustrated in charts AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1 and AD-2-WSSL-VAC-2.

1.1.3 Aircraft on IFR flight plan, routing via JB, KK or SJ - PONJO - RECHI to Seletar shall be vectored under radar
 for a visual approach. Seletar Approach shall provide the radar service for aircraft routing via JB and KK, and
 Paya Lebar Approach shall provide the radar service for aircraft routing via SJ - PONJO - RECHI. When Seletar
 Approach and Paya Lebar Approach is closed, Singapore Approach shall provide the service. Unless authorised
 by ATC, pilots shall follow the joining procedures as described in paragraph 1.4 and 1.5. The joining procedures
 are illustrated in charts AD-2-WSSL-VAC-3 , AD-2-WSSL-VAC-4, AD-2-WSSL-IFR-1 and AD-2-WSSL-IFR-2.
 All arrival clearances subject to ATC coordination.

AIP AMDT 06/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-21
 15 AUG 2019

1.1.4 When within 5km of the aerodrome reference point, aircraft are to fly; at a manoeuvring speed of not more than
 170kt unless otherwise authorised by ATC. All aircraft are required to keep well clear of Sembawang ATZ and
 Paya Lebar CTR.

1.1.5 Circuit traffic already downwind shall have priority. Arriving aircraft shall position and sequence itself accordingly,
 unless directed otherwise by ATC.

1.1.6 Pilots shall not fly east of the runway. This is due to tall buildings up to 90m (296ft) AMSL to the east of Seletar
 CTR (the location is depicted in charts AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1 to AD-2-WSSL-VAC-4.

1.2 Joining Procedures for VFR flights from Tebrau City Mall (013259N1034748E)
1.2.1 Aircraft on VFR flight plan joining Seletar CTR from East of JB Town are to descend to altitude cleared by ATC.
 From Tebrau City Mall (013259N1034748E) descend in VMC to altitude cleared by ATC and proceed to POINT
 ‘X’ (located 012830N 1034954E or radial 297/7DME from PU DVOR/DME) keeping clear of WMP228 and then
 direct to overhead the airfield.

1.2.2 When overhead the airfield, the joining aircraft shall make a turn overflying the runway and after passing abeam
 the Control Tower, commence descent as cleared to cross the upwind end of the runway at 1,500ft. Passing
 over the end of the runway, descend to circuit altitude as cleared by ATC. Pilots shall ensure to keep clear of
 Sembawang ATZ and Paya Lebar CTR and not to fly east of the runway. This is to keep clear of tall buildings
 up to 90m AMSL to the east of Seletar CTR. The area where the tall buildings are located is indicated in the
 Seletar Visual Approach Charts AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1 to AD-2-WSSL-VAC-4. Procedures are illustrated in the
 following charts:

 i. AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1 : Visual Approach Chart - RWY 03
 ii. AD-2-WSSL-VAC-2 : Visual Approach Chart - RWY 21

1.2.3 Traffic permitting and in good visibility, joining aircraft may be cleared to join directly for right base when landing
 on RWY 21 or turn downwind for RWY 03 from north-end of the runway (THR RWY 21).

1.3 Joining Procedures from Light Aircraft Training Areas
1.3.1 Unless otherwise authorised by ATC, aircraft are to join overhead the airfield at 2,000ft keeping clear of
 Sembawang ATZ and Paya Lebar CTR.

1.3.2 When overhead the airfield, the joining aircraft shall make a turn to the eastern side of the runway and after
 passing abeam the Control Tower, commence descent as cleared to cross the upwind end of the runway at
 1,500ft. Passing over the end of the runway, descend to circuit altitude as cleared by ATC. Pilots shall ensure
 to keep clear of Sembawang ATZ and Paya Lebar CTR and not to fly east of the runway. This is to keep clear
 of tall buildings up to 90m AMSL to the east of Seletar CTR. The area where the tall buildings are located is
 indicated in the Seletar Approach Charts AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1 to AD-2-WSSL-VAC-4. Procedures are illustrated
 in the following charts:

 i. AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1: Visual Approach Chart - RWY 03
 ii. AD-2-WSSL-VAC-2: Visual Approach Chart - RWY 21

1.3.3 Traffic permitting and in good visibility, joining aircraft may be cleared to join directly for right base when landing
 on RWY 21 or turn downwind for RWY 03 from north-end of the runway (THR RWY 21).

1.4 Joining Procedures for IFR flights from JB, KK or SJ - RWY 03
1.4.1 From KK
 Cross KK at or above 3,000ft. On passing KK descend in VMC to 2,000ft or altitude cleared by ATC and join
 downwind RWY 03.

 i. Straight-in-Approach
 Join downwind RWY 03 at 2,000ft (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ). When downwind descend from
 2,000ft for visual approach RWY 03, or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.

 ii. Circling Approach
 Join downwind RWY 03 at 2,000ft (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ). At end of downwind turn left and
 overfly the runway. When passing over north end of the runway (THR RWY 21), descend from 2,000ft to
 1,500ft and turn left for downwind RWY 03. At downwind descend for a visual approach RWY 03 or as
 cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 05/2019
AD 2.WSSL-22 AIP Singapore
10 OCT 2019

1.4.2 From JB
 Cross JB at or above 6,000ft enroute to Point ALFA. On passing Point ALFA, descend in VMC to 2,000ft or
 altitude cleared by ATC. (Point ALFA is located at 013033N 1034942E or Radial 296/7 DME VTK)

 i. Straight-in-Approach
 On passing Point ALFA, turn right for downwind RWY 03 (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ). At downwind
 descend from 2,000ft for a visual approach RWY 03, or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway
 in sight.

 ii. Circling Approach
 On passing Point ALFA, turn right for downwind RWY 03 (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ). At end of
 downwind, turn left and overfly the runway. Passing over north end of the runway (THR RWY 21), descend
 from 2,000ft to 1,500ft and turn left for downwind RWY 03. At downwind descend for a visual approach
 RWY 03 or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.

1.4.3 From SJ
 Cross SJ at 4,000ft or as cleared by ATC. On passing SJ, descend to 3,000ft for PONJO. On passing PONJO,
 descend in VMC to 2,000ft or altitude cleared by ATC. (PONJO is located at 011629N 1034629E or Radial 303
 SJ)

 i. Straight-in-Approach
 Join direct for a straight-in visual approach RWY 03 descending from 2,000ft at a speed of not more than
 170kt, or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.

 ii. Circling Approach
 Overfly the runway at 2,000ft at a speed of not more than 160kt, or as cleared by ATC. When passing
 over the north-end of runway (THR RWY 21), descend from 2,000ft to 1,500ft and turn left for downwind
 RWY 03 (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ and Light Aircraft Training Area A). At downwind, descend
 for visual approach or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.


1.4.4 Procedures are illustrated in the following charts:

 - AD-2-WSSL-VAC-3 : Visual Approach Chart - RWY 03

 - AD-2-WSSL-IFR-1 : Seletar Aerodrome Joining Procedures (IFR flights) from JB, KK and SJ - RWY 03

1.5 Joining Procedures for IFR flights from JB, KK or SJ - RWY 21
1.5.1 From KK
 Cross KK at or above 3,000ft. On passing KK descend in VMC to 2,000ft or altitude cleared by ATC.

 i. Straight-in-Approach
 Join direct for a straight-in visual approach Rwy 21 descending from 2,000ft, or as cleared by ATC. Pilots
 should have the runway in sight.

 ii. Circling Approach
 Overfly the runway at 2,000ft, or as cleared by ATC. Passing over the south-end of the runway
 (THR RWY 03), descend from 2,000ft to 1,500ft and turn right for downwind RWY 21 (keeping clear of
 Light Aircraft Training Area A and Sembawang ATZ). At downwind descend for a visual approach RWY
 21 or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.


1.5.2 From JB
 Cross JB at or above 6,000ft enroute to Point ALFA. On passing Point ALFA, descend in VMC to 2,000ft or
 altitude cleared by ATC. (Point ALFA is located at 013033N 1034942E or Radial 296 VTK)

 i. Straight-in-Approach
 On passing Point ALFA, join direct for a straight-in visual approach RWY 21 descending from 2,000ft, or
 as cleared by ATC (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ).

 ii. Circling Approach
 On passing Point ALFA, overfly the runway at 2,000ft. When passing over the south end of the runway
 (THR RWY 03), descend from 2,000ft to 1,500ft and turn right for downwind RWY 21 (keeping clear of
 Light Aircraft Training Area A and Sembawang ATZ). At downwind descend for a visual approach
 RWY 21 or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.




AIP AMDT 06/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSSL-23
 10 OCT 2019

1.5.3 From SJ
 Cross SJ at 4,000ft or as cleared by ATC. On passing SJ, descend to 3,000ft for PONJO. On passing PONJO,
 descend in VMC to 2,000ft or altitude cleared by ATC and join downwind RWY 21 via RECHI-SETHI. (RECHI
 is located at 012033N 1034908E or Radial 235 PU and SETHI is located at 012439N 1035006E or Radial 263
 PU)

 i. Straight-in-Approach
 Join downwind RWY 21 via SETHI at 2,000ft (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ) at a speed of not more
 than 170kt. When downwind, descend from 2,000ft for visual approach, or as cleared by ATC. Pilots
 should have the runway in sight.

 ii. Circling Approach
 Join downwind RWY 21 via SETHI at 2,000ft (keeping clear of Sembawang ATZ) at a speed of not more
 than 160kt. At end of downwind, turn right and overfly the runway. When passing over south-end of the
 runway (THR RWY 03), descend from 2,000ft to 1,500ft and turn right for downwind RWY 21. At downwind,
 descend for visual approach or as cleared by ATC. Pilots should have the runway in sight.


1.5.4 Procedures are illustrated in the following charts:

 - AD-2-WSSL-VAC-4 : Visual Approach Chart - RWY 21
 - AD-2-WSSL-IFR-2 : Seletar Aerodrome Joining Procedures (IFR flights) from JB, KK and SJ - RWY 21

1.6 Holding Procedure
1.6.1 A low level holding procedure is established at SJ DVOR/DME. Suitably equipped aircraft bound for Seletar
 which may wish to hold for weather improvement may use this procedure (ENR 3.6-3 refers)

1.7 Approaches to Seletar Aerodrome
1.7.1 A deep-water shipping channel approximately 1525m from the northern threshold cuts across the extended
 centreline of Seletar RWY 21.

1.7.2 Information on the mast heights of tall vessels is relayed to ATC by Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore.
 ATC shall inform pilots of landing and departing aircraft of such information if the reported mast height of the
 vessel is above 30m.

1.7.3 At night ATC shall not permit landing on RWY 21 when vessels of mast height above 30m are reported.

1.7.4 Aircraft making approaches into Seletar are required to keep clear of Sembawang ATZ.

1.7.5 Aircraft are restricted from overflying built-up residential areas around Seletar Airport (charts AD-2-WSSL-VAC-1
 to AD-2-WSSL-VAC-4 refer) at an altitude of below 1,500ft. Aircraft types which are unable to safely manoeuvre
 clear of the built-up residential areas are not allowed to operate at Seletar Airport.

2 DEPARTURES FROM SELETAR AERODROME
2.1 Aircraft departing Seletar on RWY 03 to RECHI - PONJO - SJ or on RWY 21 to KK are required to keep clear
 of Sembawang ATZ.

2.2 The pilot-in-command or the operator of IFR flight operating out of Seletar is required to file via KK or
 RECHI - PONJO - SJ under item 15 of the flight plan. All departure clearances subject to ATC coordination.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 06/2019
AD 2.WSSL-24 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019


 WSSL AD 2.23 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
1 BIRD CONCENTRATION IN THE VICINITY OF THE AIRPORT
1.1 A number of varieties of birds are found in Singapore throughout the year. The larger birds commonly found in
 Seletar Airport includes the following:
 - Cattle egrets (weighing approximately 300g each)
 - Brahminy kites (weighing approximately 600g each)

1.2 There could be an increase in bird activities during the usual migratory months of September to April. During
 this period, migratory birds may use the airport as their feeding ground.

1.3 Handheld laser device, long range acoustic device and alternating amplified bird cries of distress are used for
 bird dispersal within Seletar Airport.

2 HELICOPTER CROSSING SELETAR NORTHERN EXTENDED CENTRELINE
2.1 Due to flying activities in Seletar Control Zone, all helicopters flying on Heli-route Alpha and intending to cross
 the northern extended centreline of Seletar Aerodrome shall obtain a positive clearance from Seletar Tower on
 118.45MHz prior to crossing (see chart below).

2.2 For eastbound crossing, all helicopters are to hold over the western tip of Seletar Island until a clearance has
 been issued by Seletar Tower.

2.3 For westbound crossing, all helicopters are to hold on Heli-route Alpha abeam the coastal mast until a clearance
 has been issued by Seletar Tower.

2.4 The holding altitude is 200 feet or otherwise instructed by ATC.


 ADVISORY DEPARTURE PROCEDURES FOR RUNWAY 21
On departure, pilots can expect climb to an initial altitude cleared by ATC. Pilots of fixed-wing
aircraft navigating to KK can expect to turn right to join the circuit till end of downwind and then
expect a radar heading to leave Seletar CTR. Where a radar heading is not given, pilots shall navigate
to RECHI-PONJO-SJ, or navigate to KK in accordance with their ATC clearance.

Pilots of rotary-wing aircraft can expect to turn left after departure to join the helicopter circuit
pattern till end of downwind. Thereafter, they can expect further en-route clearance.

 CAUTION
a) Pilots are required to keep clear of Sembawang ATZ. Turns should therefore be kept within
 Seletar CTR.

b) Pilots should not fly to the east of the runway. This is to keep clear of tall buildings up to 296ft
 AMSL there. Pilots should have all relevant obstructions in sight, including the steel structure
 300ft AMSL and the Silo 342ft AMSL 2nm north of the airfield.

c) When cleared via RECHI-PONJO-SJ, pilots shall not deviate from the clearance unless approved
 by ATC. This is due to the proximity of WSR38 which is Permanently active from Ground to
 10,000ft.

d) Pilots shall maintain a speed of not more than 185KTS until passing PONJO to mitigate risk of
 encroaching into WSD4.

e) Minimum altitudes apply over noise abatement areas (WSSL AD 2.21)
 Aircraft types which are unable to safely manoeuvre clear of the noise abatement areas are
 not allowed to operate at Seletar Airport.
 WSAP AD 2.20 LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS - DESIGNATION OF PAYA
LEBAR AIRPORT AS AN ALTERNATE AD FOR SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 Paya Lebar Airport is designated as an alternate aerodrome to Singapore Changi Airport.

1.2 As Paya Lebar Airport is a joint civil/military aerodrome, its use as a planned alternate aerodrome for Singapore
 Changi Airport is subjected to certain restrictions and limitations. It also has limited ground, baggage and
 passenger handling facilities for civilian aircraft operations, such as passenger boarding bridges.

2 MANNING OF PAYA LEBAR AIRPORT
2.1 The airport is open from 2300-1100 on SUN-MON to THU-FRI. It is closed on Saturdays, Sundays and Public
 Holidays. Outside the stipulated operating hours and during airport closure, Paya Lebar Airport will be opened
 at 30 minutes’ notice to accept diversion flights into the aerodrome.

2.2 Airline operators are requested to inform the Airport Manager and the Duty Tower Controller or SATCC Watch
 Manager at Singapore Changi Airport as soon as it is known that their service will require the use of Paya Lebar
 Airport. Revised ETAs and/or ETDs are to be notified as soon as known.

2.3 The airport will hold off all departures and arrivals when the aerodrome visibility falls below 3km, or when the
 aerodrome prevailing cloud base is lower than 500ft. This is a safety consideration to avoid aircraft from carrying
 out a missed approach under an adverse weather condition. For maintenance/test flights scheduled to depart
 and arrive back to the airport, such departures may be held off when the aerodrome visibility falls below 6km,
 or when the aerodrome prevailing cloud base is lower than 1,000ft.

3 OPERATIONAL SERVICES
3.1 Air-ground-air communications maintained by Paya Lebar Airport for aerodrome/approach control service are
 listed in page WSAP AD 2-7.

4 PASSENGER CLEARANCE
4.1 All Customs, Health and Immigration clearances will be carried out at Singapore Changi Airport.

4.2 The diverting aircraft Airline’s Coordinator and its ground handling agency staff shall be present to provide
 assistance when an aircraft is required to land at Paya Lebar Airport.

5 SECURITY
5.1 All airline personnel, including ground handlers and support staff who have to proceed to Paya Lebar Airport
 must wear their Singapore Changi Airport passes at a prominent position for entry to the aircraft parking area.
 All personnel not in possession of the laminated Singapore Changi Airport pass will be denied entry into Paya

© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
AD 2.WSAP-10 AIP Singapore
25 APR 2019

 Lebar Airport by the RSAF Security Guard. Entry into the airport by both the airline personnel and service
 equipment is via the main gate. The Airline Engineering Coordinator shall be responsible for the proper positioning
 of the ground servicing equipment and vehicles in the Apron Area where arriving aircraft are to be parked.

5.2 The security of civil aircraft parked in the Apron is the responsibility of the aircraft owner and any security service
 obtained shall first be cleared with the Paya Lebar Airport flight security.

6 AIRCRAFT STAND ALLOCATION
6.1 Nine aircraft parking positions in Apron C and on taxiway fillets are available for civil aircraft. A separation of 40
 feet between wing-tips should be maintained.

6.2 Aircraft parking positions will be issued by the Paya Lebar Tower and the Airline Engineering Coordinator shall
 provide the marshalling services. Close coordination between the Airline Engineering Coordinator and the Tower
 Controller is essential in regard to aircraft parking and positioning of servicing equipment in and around the
 parking apron.

7 AIRCRAFT REFUELLING
7.1 ST Airport Services Pte Ltd (STARS) is the assigned aircraft fuelling agency. However, prior arrangement must
 be made between the airline and STARS for such services. The refuelling rate available is 350 imperial gallons
 per minute (IGPM).

8 GROUND OPERATIONS
8.1 Singapore Airport Terminal Services (SATS) and DNATA Singapore Pte Ltd (DNATA) will provide all ground
 services at one hour’s prior notice except engineering services which will be provided by Singapore Airlines.

9 FULL EMERGENCY/CRASH PROCEDURE
9.1 In the event of a Full Emergency being declared on a civil aircraft diverted to Paya Lebar AP, Full
 Emergency/Crash Procedures applicable to Singapore Changi AP will equally apply to Paya Lebar AP.

9.2 Alerting of all outside organisations such as the Singapore Civil Defence Force, Police, MINDEF and ambulance
 services shall be carried out by the Singapore Changi AP Tower Controller.

10 METEOROLOGICAL AND AERONAUTICAL INFORMATION SERVICE
10.1 Meteorological service is available 24 hours at the 6th floor of the building where Paya Lebar Air Traffic Control
 Tower is located.

10.2 Aeronautical Information Service is available at Singapore Changi Airport.

11 ATC SERVICE OUTSIDE STIPULATED OPERATING HOURS
11.1 Radar service will not be available at Paya Lebar Airport outside its stipulated operating hours.




AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore AD 2.WSAP-11
 25 APR 2019


 WSAP AD 2.22 FLIGHT AND GROUND PROCEDURES
1 DEPARTURE AND ARRIVAL PROCEDURES
1.1 The designated runway for departures is RWY 02 and for arrivals is RWY 20.

1.2 The airport will hold off all departures and arrivals when the aerodrome visibility falls below 3km, or when the
 aerodrome prevailing cloud base is lower than 500ft. This is a safety consideration to avoid aircraft from carrying
 out a missed approach and overflying the populace under an adverse weather condition.

2 STANDARD INSTRUMENT DEPARTURES
 November 1 Departure - Climb to maintain 3,000ft on RWY heading for PU DVOR/DME. At PU DVOR/ DME,
 turn left heading 010. Contact Seletar APP on 126.025 MHz or as instructed by ATC.

 November 2 Departure - Climb to maintain 3,000ft on RWY heading for PU DVOR/DME. At PU DVOR/ DME,
 maintain heading 020. Contact Seletar APP on 126.025 MHz or as instructed by ATC.

 November 3 Departure - Climb to maintain 3,000ft on RWY heading for PU DVOR/DME. At PU DVOR/ DME,
 turn left heading 360. Contact Seletar APP on 126.025 MHz or as instructed by ATC.

3 STANDARD ARRIVALS
 When Paya Lebar is VMC - Expect radar vector to RWY 20 for visual straight-in approach.

 When Paya Lebar is IMC - Expect radar vector to RWY 20 for ILS or PU DVOR/DME approach.



 WSAP AD 2.23 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
1 OUTDOOR LIGHT AND WATER SHOW
1.1 An outdoor light and water show will take place between 1200-1215, 1300-1315, 1400-1415 Friday to Saturday
 and 1200-1215, 1300-1315 Sunday to Thursday at 011704N 1035130E (within Paya Lebar Control Zone).
 GND - UNL.


WSAT AD 2.20 LOCAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS - USE OF RSAF TENGAH AIR
BASE AS AN EMERGENCY DIVERSION AERODROME FOR SINGAPORE CHANGI
 AIRPORT
1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 RSAF Tengah Air Base is nominated as the emergency diversionary aerodrome for Singapore Changi Airport.
 The arrangement outlined below is applicable for the handling of any civil aircraft movement that is diverted to
 RSAF Tengah Air Base.

1.2 It is emphasised that RSAF Tengah Air Base is not an ICAO designated alternate aerodrome for Singapore
 Changi Airport and therefore should not be flight planned as such. Its use by civil aircraft is permitted for
 emergency purposes only when Singapore Changi Airport runway is obstructed.

2 MANNING OF TENGAH AIR BASE
2.1 Tengah Air Base is open from 2300-1100 SUN/MON to THU/FRI. It is closed on SAT, SUN and public holidays.
 Outside the above stipulated operating hours, Tengah Air Base can be opened on 2 hours’ prior notice. This
 arrangement, if necessary, will be undertaken by the Duty Tower Controller or SATCC Watch Manager of
 Singapore Changi Airport who will inform RSAF Headquarters via Tengah Ops.

2.2 Airline operators are requested to inform the Airport Manager and the Duty Tower Controller or SATCC Watch
 Manager at Singapore Changi Airport as soon as it is known that their service will require the use of Tengah Air
 Base. Revised ETAs/ETDs are to be notified as soon as known.

3 OPERATIONAL SERVICES
3.1 The layout of Tengah Airbase with the aircraft parking apron which is available for the use of civil aircraft (except
 B747 aircraft types) in the event of an emergency diversion from Singapore Changi Airport, is indicated in page
 WSAT AD 2-11. It is to be noted that only a limited number of civil aircraft can be accommodated at any one
 time.

3.2 Air-ground-air communication maintained by RSAF Tengah Tower/APP for AD Control Services is VHF 122.0MHz.

4 PASSENGER CLEARANCE
4.1 Once the aircraft has shutdown, only the Captain of the aircraft will be allowed out of the aircraft. All other
 passengers will remain in the aircraft due to space constraints and to avoid possible immigration problems.

4.2 Arrangements will be made to transport all the passengers back to Singapore Changi Airport for immigration
 processing.

4.3 The Airport Manager or his representative will be present at the Passenger Terminal to provide assistance when
 aircraft are required to land at Tengah Air Base.

4.4 No refreshment facilities are available.

5 SECURITY
5.1 All Airline personnel who are required to proceed to Tengah Air Base must wear their Singapore Changi Airport
 Passes at a prominent position and they will be escorted to the respective areas. All personnel not in possession
 of the laminated pass except Customs and Government Officers in uniform will be denied entry into Tengah Air
 Base by the RSAF Security Guard. Entry into the Air Base by both the airline personnel and service equipment
 is via the main gate. The Airline Engineering Coordinator shall be responsible for the proper positioning of the
 ground servicing equipment and vehicles in the Apron Area where arriving aircraft are to be parked.

5.2 No equipment, vehicles, stores, cargo or mail shall be left overnight at Tengah Air Base.

5.3 The security of civil aircraft parked in the Apron is the responsibility of the aircraft owner and any security service
 obtained shall first be cleared with the Tengah Air Base Security Authorities.

6 AIRCRAFT STAND ALLOCATION
6.1 Aircraft parking positions will be issued by the RSAF Tower Controller. A “follow-me” vehicle will be waiting at
 the accesses to guide the aircraft to the allocated parking stands.

7 COMMUNICATIONS
7.1 No VHF RTF surface movement frequency is available at Tengah Tower. Communication with the Tower will
 be by telephone, the nearest of which is in the Fire Station Building in front of the aircraft parking apron.


© 2015 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AD 2.WSAT-8 AIP Singapore
12 NOV 2015

8 FUEL
8.1 Fuel available JET A1 F3X.

9 AIRCRAFT SERVICES
9.1 Airlines will have to provide their own services. Limited aircraft services can be obtained from the Aircraft
 Maintenance Unit by prior arrangement only.

9.2 Where essential facilities and services are not available at Tengah Air Base, such as the disposal of toilet waste
 or refuse, the resources available at Singapore Changi Airport shall be used.

10 RESCUE AND FIRE FIGHTING FACILITIES
10.1 The rescue and fire fighting facilities available at Tengah Airbase is up to ICAO CAT 7.

11 FULL EMERGENCY/CRASH PROCEDURE
11.1 In the event of a Full Emergency being declared on a civil aircraft diverted to Tengah Air Base, Full
 Emergency/Crash Procedures applicable to Singapore Changi Airport will equally apply to Tengah Air Base.

11.2 Alerting of all outside organisations such as the Singapore Civil Defence Force, Police, MINDEF and ambulance
 services shall be carried out by the Singapore Changi Airport Tower Controller.

11.3 The assembly point for all units attending to the Full Emergency incident will be at the Fire Station. No casualty
 clearance station is available at Tengah Air Base and in the event of an aircraft crash occurring, casualties if
 any, will be transported directly from the scene of crash to the Singapore General Hospital.

12 ATC SERVICE OUTSIDE OPERATING HOURS
12.1 Normal radar service will be provided by Singapore Radar (Civil). All aircraft diverting to Tengah will be vectored
 by Approach Control to SJ or to an agreed transfer control point before they are handed over to Tengah Tower.
 No radar service will be provided by Tengah.
