1 INTRODUCTION
1.1 International flights into, from or over Singapore territory shall be subject to the current Singapore regulations
 relating to civil aviation. These regulations correspond in all essentials to the Standards and Recommended
 Practices contained in Annex 9 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation.

1.2 Aircraft flying into or departing from Singapore territory shall make their first landing at, or final departure from
 an international aerodrome (see AIP Singapore page AD 1.3-1 and section AD 2).

1.3 Notwithstanding the regulations relating to civil aviation over Singapore territory, aircraft operators should consult
 the respective AIPs for other documentary and / or permit requirements for flights intending to enter, depart,
 and / or overfly the sovereign airspaces of States along the planned flight routes.

2 APPLICATION FOR SLOTS AT SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT
2.1 Singapore Changi Airport is a slot coordinated airport, with Changi Airport Group (CAG) as the Slot Coordinator.
 To ensure efficiency of aircraft operations and optimisation of airport resources, all operators of scheduled and
 non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flights must obtain slots from the Changi Slot Coordinator
 prior to the operation of such flights.

2.2 To apply for slots for access to Singapore Changi Airport, all operators or agents of non-scheduled, commercial
 and non-commercial flights shall submit applications for slots via either a Slot Clearance Request (SCR) to the
 Changi Slot Coordinator, or for operators without a 2-letter IATA airline code, a General (Aviation) Clearance
 Request (GCR) through the Online Coordination System (OCS) (at www.online-coordination.com).
 Changi Slot Coordinator
 c/o Changi Airport Group (Singapore) Pte Ltd
 Singapore Changi Airport
 P.O. Box 168
 Singapore 918146
 Email: csc@changiairport.com
 Tel: +65 6541 2378 or +65 6541 3064

2.3 Operators or agents of non-scheduled, commercial and non-commercial flights shall submit their slot requests
 to the Changi Slot Coordinator no earlier than 7 calendar days and but no later than 24 hours prior to the operation
 of the flight, for which the slot will be utilized.

2.4 To facilitate the optimisation of aircraft parking resources at Singapore Changi Airport, operators or agents of
 non-scheduled, commercial and non-commercial flights are strongly advised to limit their ground time to no more
 than 48 hours from the arrival slot timing.

2.5 For urgent non-scheduled, commercial and non-commercial flight operations that are less than 24 hours from
 the proposed date of operation, in addition to submitting the SCR/GCR, operators/agents must also inform the
 Airside Operations Section of CAG (Airside Management Centre) at +65 6603 4906 / +65 6541 2275 /
 +65 6541 2273.

2.6 EXEMPT FLIGHTS

2.6.1 Notwithstanding paragraph 2.1, the following types of flights may operate to / from Singapore Changi Airport
 without obtaining slots from the Changi Slot Coordinator:
 - Emergency landings. e.g. diversions or quick returns after takeoff, oil spill response operations
 - Flights operating under diplomatic cover
 - Flights operated by the military, including those carrying supplies but excluding those chartered on a commercial
 basis by the military
 - Humanitarian flights including those responding to medical emergencies where the safety of human life is
 concerned or involved in search and rescue operations
 - Technical flights including radar and NAVAID calibration / check flights

2.7 RESTRICTIONS ON OPERATION OF PROPELLER AIRCRAFT AT SINGAPORE CHANGI AIRPORT

2.7.1 Both scheduled and non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) propeller aircraft operations will not be
 allocated new slots at Singapore Changi Airport.


3 SUBMISSION OF FLIGHT DETAILS AND APPLICATION FOR SLOTS AT SELETAR AIRPORT
3.1 Seletar Airport is a schedules facilitated airport, with Changi Airport Group (CAG) as the Seletar Schedules
 Facilitator. To ensure efficiency of aircraft operations and optimisation of airport resources, all operators of
 non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flights must submit details of their planned operations to the
 Seletar Schedules Facilitator prior to these operations. Operators shall also be prepared to make adjustments
 to their schedules when necessary as advised by the Seletar Schedules Facilitator to ensure that airport capacity
 parameters are not exceeded. In addition, all operators of scheduled flights must obtain slots from the Seletar
 Schedules Facilitator prior to the operation of such flights. No operation will be permitted without the approval
 of the Seletar Schedules Facilitator.

3.2 For non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flight operations, operators or agents shall submit details
 of their planned operations to seletar.airside@changiairport.com during the flights submission window, defined
 as no earlier than 7 calendar days but no later than 1400 UTC / 2200 LT on the day prior to the planned operations.

3.3 For urgent non-scheduled (commercial and non-commercial) flight operations of which details were not submitted
 during the flights submission window, operators or agents must submit the details to
 seletar.airside@changiairport.com and call to inform the Airside Operations Section of Seletar Airport at
 +65 6481 5077.

3.4 Operators or agents shall include the following details of the flight operations in their submission:

 - Name of operator and appointed ground handling agent;
 - Date and time of arrival and departure (in local time);
 - Aircraft type and seat capacity;
 - Origin and destination;
 - Aircraft registration number; and
 - Purpose of flight (e.g. business aviation; general aviation; cargo; maintenance, repair and operations (MRO);
 etc.).

3.5 For scheduled flight operations, operators shall submit applications for slots via a Slot Clearance Request (SCR)
 to csc@changiairport.com.

3.6 All operators shall adhere to the IATA Worldwide Slot Guidelines (WSG). A copy of this document can be
 obtained from www.iata.org/wsg

3.7 EXEMPT FLIGHTS

3.7.1 Notwithstanding paragraph 3.1, the following types of flights may operate to / from Seletar Airport without
 submitting details of their flight operations to the Seletar Schedules Facilitator during the flights submission
 window as stipulated in paragraph 3.2:

 - Emergency landings, e.g. diversions or quick returns after takeoff, oil spill response operations;
 - Flights operating under diplomatic cover;
 - Flights operated by the military, including those carrying supplies but excluding those chartered on a commercial basis by the military;
 - Humanitarian flights including those responding to medical emergencies where the safety of human life is concerned or involved in search & rescue operations; and
 - Technical flights including radar and NAVAID calibration /check flights.

3.7.2 However, operators or agents of exempt flights shall call to inform the Airside Operations Section of Seletar
 Airport at +65 6481 5077 of their flight operations in advance.

3.8 DESIGNATED HOURS FOR TRAINING FLIGHTS

3.8.1 To optimise the use of capacity, training and non-training flights will be segregated through designated hours
 for training flights. Non-training flights will not be permitted at Seletar Airport during the following periods from
 Tuesdays to Sundays:

 - 0130 to 0230 UTC / 0930 to 1030 LT;
 - 0400 to 0500 UTC / 1200 to 1300 LT;
 - 0700 to 0800 UTC / 1500 to 1600 LT; and
 - 0900 to 1000 UTC / 1700 to 1800 LT.

3.8.2 All operators or agents and pilots are to plan their flight schedules with sufficient buffers to avoid the designated
 hours for training flights.

3.8.3 Notwithstanding paragraph 3.8.1, the following types of flights may be permitted during the designated hours
 for training flights:

 - Emergency landings, e.g. diversions or quick returns after takeoff, oil spill response operations;
 - Flights operating under diplomatic cover; and
 - Humanitarian flights including those responding to medical emergencies where the safety of human life is
 concerned or involved in search & rescue operations.

4 CIVIL SCHEDULED FLIGHTS

4.1 GENERAL
4.1.1 Before a scheduled service is permitted to operate into the Republic of Singapore, it must be appropriately
 covered by either an air services agreement, a licence issued in accordance with the Air Navigation (Licensing
 of Air Services) Regulations or other aeronautical arrangements. All scheduled flights are subject to prior approval.

4.2 APPLICATION FOR TRAFFIC LANDINGS AND UPLIFTS (SCHEDULED FLIGHTS)
4.2.1 Only the airline operator may apply for permission to operate scheduled flights.

4.2.2 All airline operators are to submit their applications for scheduled flights for each IATA schedule season one
 month before the start of the season for approval by CAAS.

4.2.3 In addition, airline operators are also required to apply for CAAS’ approval for any revisions to their schedule
 filings for the season, ad-hoc changes to flight schedules and flight cancellations. Such applications should be
 filed through the CAAS Air Transport Licensing and Administration System (ATLAS) at
 https://appserver1.caas.gov.sg/ATLAS 5 working days before flight changes take place.

4.2.4 If insufficient notice as specified in paragraphs 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 is given, the application may not be considered.

4.2.5 Airline operators are to ensure that a copy of the following documents, which are to remain valid during the
 period of operations, are lodged with CAAS:

 a. Certificate(s) of Registration(s) for aircraft used;
 b. Certificate(s) of Airworthiness for aircraft used; and
 c. Air Operator’s Certificate

4.2.6 All applications and required documents listed in paragraph 3.2.5 should be submitted via ATLAS.

4.3 DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS FOR CLEARANCE OF AIRCRAFT
4.3.1 It is necessary that the undermentioned aircraft documents be submitted by airline operators for clearance on
 entry and departure of their aircraft to and from Singapore. All documents listed below must follow the ICAO
 standard format as set forth in the relevant appendices to ICAO Annex 9. They are acceptable in English only
 and must be completed in legible handwriting. No visas are required in connection with such documents.

4.3.2 Aircraft Documents Requirements (arrival/departure)
 a. One copy of the General Declaration is endorsed and returned by Customs, signifying clearance.
 b. If no passengers are embarking (disembarking) and no articles are laden (unladen), no aircraft documents
 except copies of the General Declaration need be submitted to the above authorities.

5 CIVIL NON-SCHEDULED FLIGHTS

5.1 PROCEDURES

5.1.1 Overflights
5.1.1.1 Prior notification is necessary. Subject to the observance of the terms of the Convention on International Civil
 Aviation, Singapore facilitates overflights by civil aircraft registered in any ICAO Contracting States with which
 Singapore has diplomatic relations provided adequate advance notification shall have been given.

5.1.1.2 Notification by flight plan addressed to the Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre (WSJCZQZX) if received at
 least 2 hours in advance of the aircraft’s arrival into the Singapore Flight Information Region will normally be
 accepted as advance notification in this respect.

5.1.1.3 In all other cases, prior permission must be sought and obtained through diplomatic means from the Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs, Republic of Singapore.

 5.1.2 Non-Traffic or Technical Landings
 5.1.2.1 Prior notification is necessary. Subject to the observance of the terms of the Convention on International Civil
 Aviation, Singapore facilitates such non-traffic or technical landings by civil aircraft registered in any ICAO
 Contracting States with which Singapore has diplomatic relations provided adequate advance notification shall
 have been given.

 5.1.2.2 Notification by flight plan addressed to the Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre (WSJCZQZX) if received at
 least 2 hours in advance of the aircraft’s arrival at Singapore Changi Airport or Seletar Aerodrome or 2 hours
 prior to entering the Singapore Flight Information Region whichever is the earlier will normally be accepted as
 advance notification in this respect.

 5.1.2.3 All business aviation aircraft shall park in a nose-in position and be pushed back with the aid of an aircraft
 tow-bar and tow-tractor. Reverse thrust or variable pitch propellers shall not be used. The aircraft must carry
 its own tow-bar. The aircraft operator may make arrangements with the ground handling agent to provide the
 tow-bar. The aircraft shall be required to be towed to another aircraft stand should the need arise.

 5.1.2.4 All passengers of the business aviation flight will have to clear CIQ via the Commercially-Important- Persons
 facility located at Terminal 2.

 5.1.2.5 All business aviation flights must engage a ground handling agent at Singapore Changi Airport.

 5.1.2.6 In all other cases, prior permission must be sought and obtained through diplomatic means from the Ministry of
 Foreign Affairs, Republic of Singapore.

 5.1.2.7 All non-traffic aircraft are to submit a copy of the Certificate of Airworthiness to CAAS, after each landing, by
 facsimile at 6545 6519 or by email to CAAS_FS_FOS@caas.gov.sg
 
 5.1.3 Application for Traffic Landings and Uplifts (Non-Scheduled Flights)
 5.1.3.1 All non-scheduled flights are subject to prior approval.

 5.1.3.2 Only the operator may apply for permission to operate a non-scheduled flight. The following information should
 be submitted together with the application:
 a. Name, address and nationality of operator;
 b. Name, address and business of charterer;
 c. Type, registration mark and carrying capacity of aircraft;
 d. Aircraft documents listed in para 3.2.5;
 e. Nature of flight including details of whether the flight is to carry passengers or cargo or both;

 i. for passenger flights: points of origin and destination of passengers, purpose of flight e.g. special
 event charter, inclusive tours and own-use charter; and the names of passengers.
 ii. for cargo flights: the origin, destination, description, quantities and dimensions of cargo;
 outbound/inbound or transhipment, as well as whether any item is perishable or classified as
 dangerous, explosive or munitions of war. (Please see regulations concerning importation,
 transhipment and exportation of cargo in subsection GEN 1.4).

 f. Details of route, points of landing and final destination;
 g. Date and time of arrival at, and departure from Singapore (Please see para 4.1.3.4 below);
 h. Name, address and telephone number of operator's local agent and ground handling agent;
 i. Name and address of consignees and consignors, where applicable;
 j. Any other information that may be relevant to the proposed operations.

 5.1.3.3 All applications must be submitted via https://appserver1.caas.gov.sg/ATLAS

 The complete application and its supporting documents must reach the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore Air
 Transport Division via the weblink provided at least 3 working days prior to the aircraft’s arrival or departure
 into/from Singapore to be considered for a “normal permit”. Operators who wish to obtain a permit under 3
 working days may submit their applications. Such applications must reach the Air Transport Division at least
 24 hours before the proposed flight to be considered for an “express permit”. Applicants for express permits
 should alert the Air Transport Duty Officer at +65 98331775. Applications will not be considered if insufficient
 notice is given (not applicable for emergency flights e.g. flights on humanitarian grounds).

 5.1.3.4 Operators, other than operators of business aviation aircraft as stated in para 4.1.3.5, should schedule their
 arrivals and departures at Singapore Changi Airport outside the hours 0001 to 0200 UTC (0801-1000 LT) and
 0900 to 1559 UTC (1700-2359 LT). Subject to approval (depending on aircraft stand availability), aircraft may
 be permitted to remain on the ground during the above times on condition that the aircraft vacates the aircraft
 stand if the need arises. (Please see GEN 4.1 para 1.5 b) regarding off-peak discount of 40% on landing
 charges).

 All business aviation aircraft operating as executive jet charter may be permitted to remain on the ground or
 layover at Singapore Changi Airport.

 All business aviation aircraft shall park in a nose-in position and be pushed back with the aid of an aircraft
 tow-bar and tow-tractor. Reverse thrust or variable pitch propellers shall not be used when parking or pushing
 back aircraft. The aircraft operator must ensure that an appropriate tow-bar for the aircraft type is available to
 facilitate push back operations from the aircraft stand. The aircraft operators may use their own tow-bar or
 approach ground handling agents in either Seletar or Singapore Changi Airport to secure the appropriate tow-bar.
 All passengers of the business aviation flight will have to clear CIQ via the Commercially-Important-Persons
 facility located beside Terminal 2.

 Requests to handle executive jet charter or charter flights via the main terminals are to be sent via email to
 csc@changiairport.com for exceptional consideration at all times.

 All business aviation flights must engage aground handling agent at Singapore Changi Airport.
	 The appropriate legislation dealing with non-scheduled flights for hire or reward is contained in PART III -
 Permits For Journeys Other Than Scheduled Journeys of the Air Navigation (Licensing of Air Services)
 Regulations. Any person who uses any aircraft in contravention of the provisions of Regulation 15 of the legislation
 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding S$2,500 or to imprisonment
 for a term not exceeding 3 months or to both and in the case of a second or subsequent offence, to a fine not
 exceeding S$20,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or to both.

Permit Fees
 (a) Normal Permits:
 The following fees shall be paid to the Authority [in accordance with Regulation 18 of the Air Navigation (Licensing
 of Air Services) Regulations] to obtain a permit which must be applied at least 3 whole working days before the
 first flight:
 i. S$84 for a single one-way or return flight;
 ii. S$162 for 2 or more one-way or return flights but not more than 5 such flights;
 iii. S$326 for 5 one-way or return flights but not more than 10 such flights; or
 iv. S$810 for more than 10 one-way or return flights.

 (b) Express Permits:

 Operators who wish to obtain a permit under 3 working days, but at least 24 hours before the flight, should
 contact the Duty Officer at +65 98331775 and submit a complete application via this weblink:
 https://appserver1.caas.gov.sg/ATLAS. The following fee shall be paid:
 i. S$252 for a single one-way or return flight.

 Note 1: “Working Day” means:
 i. a period that begins at 8.30am and ends at 6pm on any Monday to Thursday that CAAS is open for
 business; and
 ii. a period that begins at 8.30am and ends at 5.30pm on any Friday that CAAS is open for business.

 Note 2: Any application that is made after the close of business shall be deemed to have been made on the
 next working day.

 Definitions:

 Non-scheduled flight - a flight for the carriage of passengers, mail or cargo by air for hire and reward on journeys
 other than scheduled.

 Business aviation flight - a flight that is owned and operated privately by a business corporation or chartered
 privately by business or corporate executives for non-revenue purposes.

 Charterer - a person, company or corporate body who charters the aircraft and whose name and address appear
 in the Aircraft Charter Agreement.

 Operator- in relation to an aircraft, the person for the time being having the business management of that aircraft.

 DOCUMENTARY REQUIREMENTS FOR CLEARANCE OF AIRCRAFT
 Same requirements as for SCHEDULED FLIGHTS.


5.3 PERMIT CONDITIONS
5.3.1 The Director-General of Civil Aviation may attach such conditions to a permit as he considers necessary.

5.4 APPLICATION FOR DIPLOMATIC CLEARANCE FOR FOREIGN STATE AIRCRAFT

5.4.1 Procedures for Applying Diplomatic Clearance for Landing and Overflight for Foreign
 State Aircraft in Singapore
5.4.1.1 Except where otherwise agreed, all Foreign State aircraft intending to land at or overfly Singapore are to obtain
 diplomatic clearance for such landing or overflight from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, giving information as in
 para 4.4.2.

5.4.1.2 The application is to be made giving at least 14 days’ notice.

5.4.2 Information to be provided when applying for Diplomatic Clearance
5.4.2.1 All applications for diplomatic clearance should contain the following information:
 a. Name of Mission/Organisation;
 b. Liaison Officer;
 c. Telephone Number;
 d. Number and Type of Aircraft;
 e. Callsign;
 f. Aircraft Registration;
 g. Full flight itinerary;
 h. Route after entering and before leaving Singapore FIR;
 i. Date of Arrival;
 j. Time of Arrival;
 k. Date of Departure;
 l. Time of Departure;
 m. Arrival from;
 n. Departing to;
 o. Airfield requested;
 p. Name of Pilot;
 q. Number of Crew;
 r. Number of Passengers;
 s. If VIP flight, Name of VIP and number of other officials;
 t. Purpose;
 u. Photograph and sensory equipment if any;
 v. Nature of freight or cargoes carried if any;
 w. Dangerous cargoes, if any (e.g. arms, ammunition, explosives, toxic chemicals);
 x. Types of services required (e.g. type of fuel, APU/GPU, ground handling etc.);
 y. Additional/Special request

 Note: Aircraft used in military, customs or police services are deemed to be State aircraft.

6 APPLICATION FOR TEST FLIGHTS
6.1 All applications for test flights are subject to prior approval.

6.2 All applications are to be made at least 2 working days but not more than 2 weeks in advance. If notice is not
 complied with, the application may not be considered.

6.3 Applicants should provide details as listed in items a. to e. below and ensure that the documents as listed in
 items f. to h. of the aircraft undergoing test flights remain valid during the period of operation:
 a. Aircraft Registration;
 b. Aircraft Callsign;
 c. Aircraft Type;
 d. Date / Time / Duration of flight;
 e. Point of Departure and Arrival;
 f. Certificate of Registration;
 g. Certificate of Airworthiness;
 h. A Permit to Fly, issued by CAAS, in the absence of a valid Certificate of Airworthiness.


6.4 All applications should be submitted to:
 Post:
 Duty Manager, Singapore Air Traffic Control Centre
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 60 Biggin Hill Road, Singapore 509950
 Email: caas_atsops@caas.gov.sg
 Fax: 65457526

6.5 Details on flight planning for test flights are listed at ENR 1.10 FLIGHT PLANNING.

7 AIRCRAFT BANNED FROM OPERATIONS AT SINGAPORE AERODROMES
7.1 The Antonov-12 aircraft is banned from all operations to/from Singapore aerodromes due to concerns over its
 continuing airworthiness.

 GEN 1.3 ENTRY, TRANSIT AND DEPARTURE OF PASSENGERS AND CREW

1 CUSTOMS REQUIREMENTS
1.1 The Red and Green Channel system is operated at the Airport to expedite customs clearance of arriving air
 passengers. All arriving passengers shall present themselves personally with their baggage and make oral
 declarations at the Red Channel if they have any prohibited or controlled goods or goods exceeding their duty-free
 concession and Goods and Services Tax (GST) import relief. If they do not have any of such goods, they may
 leave the Arrival Hall through the Green Channel. However, selective checks may be conducted on passengers
 going through the Green Channel. All crew members shall produce their baggage for clearance at the Red
 Channel only. Departing passengers are not subject to Customs formalities unless required to do so. Baggage
 may be examined in such manner as deemed necessary and it shall be the duty of the person in charge of the
 baggage to produce, open, unpack and repack such baggage.

1.2 Dutiable Goods. All dutiable goods brought into Singapore are subject to customs duty and/or excise duty and
 GST. There are 4 categories of dutiable goods: Intoxicating liquors; tobacco products; motor vehicles; and motor
 fuel. Please refer to the Singapore Customs’ website for the latest list of dutiable goods and their respective
 duty rates. There is no customs duty on goods exported from Singapore.

1.3 Duty-Free Allowance. Travellers are entitled to duty-free concession for liquors if they meet all the following
 conditions:
 - Is 18 years of age and above;
 - Have spent 48 hours or more outside Singapore immediately before arrival;
 - Not arriving from Malaysia;
 - The liquor is for personal consumption; and
 - The liquor is not prohibited from import into Singapore.

 Bona-fide crew members are granted duty-free concession on 0.25 litre of spirits and 1 litre of wine or 1 litre of
 beer.

1.4 GST Taxable Goods. All goods brought into Singapore are subject to GST, at the prevailing rate of 7 percent.
 GST is levied on the value of goods, which may include the cost, insurance and freight (CIF) plus other chargeable
 costs and the duty payable (if applicable).

1.5 GST Import Relief. Travellers (excluding crew members and holders of a work permit, employment pass,
 student pass, dependent pass or long-term pass issued by the Singapore Government), are granted GST import
 relief on new articles, souvenirs, gifts and food preparations brought into Singapore. These goods must be
 intended for traveller's personal use or consumption and not for sale. The GST import relief amount is based
 on the number of hours the traveller has spent outside Singapore

 There is no GST import relief and duty-free concession on intoxicating liquor and tobacco products, as well as
 goods imported for commercial purposes.

 For more information on duty-free concession and GST import relief, please visit Singapore Customs’ website.

1.6 Declaration and Payment of Duty and/or GST. Arriving travellers are required to declare and pay the duty
 and GST to bring in dutiable and taxable goods exceeding their duty-free concession and GST import relief.
 For convenience, you are encouraged to make an advance declaration and payment of duties and GST prior
 to your arrival through our Customs@SG mobile app or web portal. Once tax payment is successful, the app
 will create an e-receipt in your mobile device and you may exit the Arrival Hall via the Green Channel. If you are
 stopped for checks, you can show the e-receipt stored in your mobile device as proof of payment to the officers.

 Please visit Singapore Customs’ website for more information on the Customs@SG mobile app and web portal.
 Alternatively, you may proceed directly to the Customs Tax Payment Office or the Red Channel upon arrival to
 declare your goods. Please present supporting documents such as invoices or receipts indicating the value of
 your goods to facilitate declaration and payment (if necessary).

1.7 Goods Requiring a Customs Import Permit. A valid Customs import permit is required for clearance if
 travellers are carrying (but not limited to):

 - More than 0.4 kilogrammes of cigarettes or other tobacco products;
 - More than 10 litres of liquor products;
 - More than 0.5 kilogrammes of investment precious metals for personal use;
 - More than 10 litres of motor fuel;
 - Goods for trade or commercial use the GST on which exceeds S$300; or
 - Goods clearly marked as trade samples (excluding liquors and tobacco products) the value of which exceeds S$400

1.8 Prohibited Goods. The following items are NOT allowed to be imported into Singapore. Some examples of
 prohibited goods include (but not limited to):

 - Chewing gum (except approved oral dental and medicated gum by Singapore's Health Sciences Authority)
 - Chewing tobacco and imitation tobacco products (e.g. electronic cigarettes, etc)
 - Nasal snuff
 - Oral snuff (including snus and dipping tobacco)
 - Gutkha, Khaini and Zarda
 - Shisha
 - Smokeless cigars, smokeless cigarillos or smokeless cigarettes
 - Dissolvable tobacco or nicotine. Any product containing nicotine or tobacco that may be used topically for application, by implant or injected into any parts of the body
 - Any solution or substance, of which tobacco or nicotine is a constituent, that is intended to be used with an electronic nicotine delivery system or vaporizers
 - Cigarette lighters of pistol or revolver shape
 - Controlled drugs and psychotropic substances
 - Endangered species of wildlife and their by-products
 - Firecrackers
 - Obscene articles, publications, video tapes/discs and software
 - Reproduction of copyright publications, video tapes, video compact discs, laser discs, records or cassettes
 - Seditious and treasonable materials

 It is an offence to attempt to bring prohibited goods into Singapore.

1.9 Controlled Goods. You are required to obtain an import permit or authorisation form from the relevant Competent
 Authorities before you can bring controlled goods into Singapore. Please produce the goods and the import
 permit or authorisation form to the checking officer at the Red Channel on your arrival. Some examples of
 controlled goods include (but not limited to):
 - Animals, birds, fish and their products
 - CDs, DVDs, films and video games
 - Arms and explosives
 - Medicines and pharmaceutical products
 - Telecommunication and radio communication equipment

 Please visit Customs website for more information on controlled and prohibited goods .

2 IMMIGRATION REQUIREMENTS
2.1 All passengers are required to present themselves with their travel documents for examination, and endorsements
 (if necessary). Every passenger must fill in a Disembarkation/Embarkation form (including one for each child)
 except Singaporeans, Permanent Residents and long term pass holders.

2.2 Any person entering Singapore from a place outside Singapore, or is leaving Singapore for a place outside
 Singapore (including aircrew entering or leaving Singapore on test flights) shall present to an immigration officer
 at an authorised airport, a valid passport or a valid travel document recognised by the Government of Singapore
 (in the case of an alien, a visa for Singapore where such a visa is required) with the exception of the following
 persons:

 a. A member of the Singapore Armed Forces travelling on duty;
 b. A member of such Visiting Forces as the Minister may determine;
 c. Any child or person who is included in the passport or other travel document of a parent of the child, or of
 a spouse or other relative of the person and is accompanying that parent, spouse or relative (as the case
 may be) when travelling to and leaving from Singapore.

AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.3-3
 25 APR 2019

2.3 Nationals of the following countries require visas for the purpose of social visits in Singapore (with exception of
 an aircrew who is an airline crew member that, in the course of a journey on duty from a place outside Singapore
 to Singapore, or from a place outside Singapore to a place outside Singapore, calls at an authorised airport):
 - Afghanistan
 - Algeria
 - Bangladesh
 - Commonwealth of Independent States i.e. Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan
 - Democratic People's Republic of Korea
 - Egypt
 - Georgia
 - India
 - Iran
 - Iraq
 - Jordan
 - Kosovo
 - Lebanon
 - Libya
 - Mali
 - Morocco 
 - Nigeria
 - People's Republic of China
 - Pakistan
 - Saudi Arabia 
 - Somalia
 - Sudan
 - Syria
 - Tunisia
 - Turkmenistan
 - Ukraine
 - Yemen

 Visitors holding Hong Kong Document of Identity, Macao Special Administrative Region (MSAR) Travel Permit,
 Palestinian Authority Passport, Refugee Travel Document issued by the Middle-East countries and Temporary
 Passport issued by United Arab Emirates will also require a visa to enter Singapore.

 Holders of diplomatic, official and service passports do not need a visa for entry.

 Holders of diplomatic, public affairs and service passports do not need a visa for entry.

 Holders of diplomatic and official passports do not need a visa for entry

   Holders of diplomatic passports do not need a visa for entry

 These travel documents are subjected to assessment of recognition for entry into Singapore

 Nationals of Commonwealth of Independent States (Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
 Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan), Georgia, Turkmenistan, and Ukraine may qualify for the 96-hour
 visa free transit facility (VFTF) provided that:

 a. the person is in transit to a third country;
 b. the person holds a valid passport, confirmed onward air-ticket, entry facilities (including visa) to the third
 country and have sufficient funds for the period of stay in Singapore;
 c. the person continues his journey to the third country within 96 hours visa free period granted; and
 d. the person satisfies Singapore's entry requirements.




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 03/2019
GEN 1.3-4 AIP Singapore
25 APR 2019

 Nationals of India and the PRC may qualify for the 96-hour VFTF provided that:

 a. the person is in transit to or from a third country via Singapore by any mode of transport and will depart
 via air or sea;

 b. the person holds a valid passport and confirmed onward air/ferry/cruise ticket for departure from Singapore
 within 96 hours;

 c. the person has a valid visa/long-term pass (with a validity of at least 1 month from the date of entry into
 Singapore under the VFTF) issued by any of the following countries:

 - Australia
 - Canada
 - Germany
 - Japan
 - New Zealand
 - Switzerland
 - United Kingdom
 - United States of America


 A visa is considered valid so long as it is good for entry into one of the eight countries listed above. Travellers
 with Single Journey Visas (SJV) may still be granted VFTF on the return leg of their journey (i.e. after the SJV
 is used and no longer valid), but:

 - the person must travel directly from the country that issued the SJV, en route through Singapore, back to
 their home country
 - the person must not have returned to their home country since they last used the SJV.


2.4 Visitors must satisfy the following basic entry requirements before they are allowed to enter Singapore:

 a. They are in possession of valid passports with at least 6 months’ validity with assurance of their re-entry
 into their countries of residence or origin;
 b. They have sufficient funds to last for the intended period of stay in Singapore;
 c. They hold confirmed onward/return tickets and entry facilities (including visas) to their onward destinations;
 and
 d. They have a Yellow Fever Vaccination Certificate, if applicable.

 The granting of social visit passes to all visitors is determined by the Immigration & Checkpoints Authority (ICA)
 officers at the point of entry.

3 PUBLIC HEALTH REQUIREMENTS
3.1 Strict compliance with the provisions of the International Health Regulations, 2005, of the World Health
 Organisation, and Singapore's Infectious Diseases Act is required.

3.2 The pilot-in-command of an aircraft landing at Airports in Singapore shall furnish the Airport Health Officer with
 one copy of the General Declaration form (see ICAO Annex 9 Appendix 1) and one copy of the Passenger
 Manifest (see ICAO Annex 9 Appendix 2) signed by the pilot-in-command.

3.3 Vaccination Certificate Requirements for entry into Singapore are as follows:

 A valid International Certificate of Vaccination for yellow fever is required from travellers above one year of age
 who have been in or have passed through any country with risk of yellow fever transmission in the six days
 before arriving in Singapore. The certificate is valid for life, beginning from 10 days after the date of vaccination
 (this applies to existing and new certificates). An exemption letter, signed by a medical practitioner, is required
 for individuals who are exempted from being vaccinated before entry into Singapore. Please refer to Singapore's
 Immigration & Checkpoints Authority website for the updated list of countries with risk of yellow fever transmission.




AIP AMDT 03/2019 © 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore
AIP Singapore GEN 1.3-5
 25 APR 2019

4 FLYING LICENCES AND RATINGS

4.1 VISITING PILOTS - HOLDERS OF NON-SINGAPORE PILOT LICENCES
4.1.1 When a holder of a non-Singapore pilot’s licence wishes to fly on a Singapore registered aircraft in a private
 capacity in Singapore, he will be required to apply for a Certificate of Validation for his foreign licence. The
 Certificate of Validation, if approved, will be issued for this purpose only and for a limited period. The applicant
 would also be required to fulfil certain conditions. Pilots who wish to apply for a Certificate of Validation should
 contact the Personnel Licensing Section of the Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore (see address in paragraph
 4.2.2 below)

4.2 CONVERSION OF FOREIGN LICENCE TO SINGAPORE LICENCE
4.2.1 Pilots holding valid licences, including an instrument rating and/or flying instructor’s rating issued by ICAO
 Contracting States, may be considered for the conversion of their licences under the following conditions:

 a. The pilot must demonstrate formal prospective employment by a Singapore air operator, approved training
 organisation or flying club to operate on Singapore registered aircraft.
 (This requirement will not be applicable for the conversion of a foreign licence to a Singapore PPL.)

 b. The pilot’s foreign licence and its associated ratings must be valid from the time of application to the time
 of issue of a Singapore licence and its associated ratings.

 c. The pilot must fulfil all conversion terms as specified by CAAS within a period of 6 months preceding the
 issue of a Singapore licence and its associated ratings.



4.2.2 Further details on the conversion of a foreign licence can be obtained from:

 Safety Policy and Planning Division
 Personnel Licensing Section
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 Singapore Changi Airport Terminal 2
 South Finger Pier Level 3
 Unit No. 038-039
 Singapore 819643

 TEL: (65) 65412482
 FAX: (65) 65434941

4.3 PILOTS WHO HAVE ATTAINED THE AGE OF 65
4.3.1 Any pilot who has attained his 65th birthday shall not be permitted to act as pilot-in-command or co-pilot of an
 aircraft engaged in scheduled or non-scheduled international commercial air transport operations within Singapore
 airspace.

 GEN 1.4 ENTRY, TRANSIT AND DEPARTURE OF CARGO

1 CUSTOMS REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING CARGO AND OTHER ARTICLES
1.1 The following supporting documents: Airway Bill, Invoice, Packing List together with Customs Permits [for all
 goods including controlled goods, dutiable goods and goods subject to Goods and Services Tax (GST)] are to
 be produced if they are required for checks by Immigration and Checkpoints Authority officers at the checkpoint.

1.2 The following are applicable to the Free Trade Zone (FTZ):

 a. Transhipment within the same FTZ (In Through Airway Bill cases), no Customs documentation is required
 if the items are not controlled by the Competent Authorities (CAs);
 b. Transhipment of controlled goods within the same FTZ (In Through Airway Bill cases), a transshipment
 (Through transshipment within the same FTZ) permit is required; and
 c. Import for re-export within the same FTZ (In Non-Through Airway Bill cases), an import permit is required
 for the importation of goods into the FTZ and an export permit is required for the exportation of goods from
 the same FTZ.


1.3 Under the Strategic Goods (Control) Act (SGCA), goods in transhipment or transit are subject to controls under
 the full control list. No clearance documents are required for strategic goods in transhipment or transit which
 are taken into a FTZ immediately after they have been brought into Singapore and stay in the FTZ for not more
 than 45-days (for sea) / 21-days (for air) except for certain categories of goods. For transhipment and transit of
 certain sensitive strategic goods (listed under the Fourth and Fifth Schedule of the SGCR) and goods that are
 intended or likely to be used for nuclear, chemical or biological weapon purposes, or missiles capable of delivering
 such weapons (i.e. catch-all for WMD purposes), a strategic good permit is still required. Depending on the
 conditions stated in the permits, these goods may be required to be presented for Customs clearance at the
 checkpoint

1.4 For the exportation of dutiable goods from a Licensed Warehouse, or non-dutiable goods from a Zero-GST
 Warehouse, Customs outward permits are to be presented for checkpoint inspection and clearance.

1.5 For the importation and exportation of controlled goods, depending on the Competent Authorities’(CA)
 requirements, these goods may be required to be presented for Customs clearance at the checkpoint. For more
 information on the list of Controlled and Prohibited Goods for the importation and exportation of goods, please
 visit the respective pages on the Singapore Customs website. You may also refer to the Strategic Goods and
 the United Nations Security Council Sanctions webpages for more information on the relevant topics.

2 VETERINARY, ANIMALS, BIRDS, MEAT, FISH AND PLANT QUARANTINE
 REQUIREMENTS
2.1 Prior permission of the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority (AVA) is required for import, export or transshipment
 of:

 a. Animals, birds, eggs, meat and meat products(including canned or processed meat), animal products,
 veterinary biological, fertilizers containing animal products;

 b. Fish (for human consumption as well as for aquaria), fisheries products (in all forms), aquatic animals (alive
 or dead).

 c. Plants and propagatable plant parts including cuttings, seeds and bulbs with or without potting medium,
 organic fertilisers of plant origin, live insects and microorganisms. Plant produce including cutflowers, fruits
 and vegetables from the American Tropics (between Lat 23 1 / 2°N and 23 1 / 2 °S).


2.2 In the case of live animals, prior permission is also required for animals in transit. No prior permission required
 for transshipment of plants and plant products.

2.3 Prior permission of the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority (AVA) is required for the import and export of all
 species of wild animals and plants and their parts or derivatives protected under the Convention on International
 Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES).




© 2019 Civil Aviation Authority Singapore AIP AMDT 04/2019
GEN 1.4-2 AIP Singapore
15 AUG 2019

3 REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES
3.1 The import, export and transhipment of all arms, explosives, component parts, munitions and weapons including
 swords, sword-sticks, kukris, parangs, daggers, spears, spear-heads, toy pistols, airguns, etc. are strictly
 controlled. Permits must be obtained and applications should be made to the Arms and Explosives Branch,
 Commissioner of Singapore Police, Block J, Kinloss Complex, No 3 Ladyhill Road, Singapore 258672 (Fax:
 65-67340531) at least 2 weeks before the intended date of air carriage. Severe penalties are provided for
 non-compliance of requirements.

4 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE CARRIAGE OF DANGEROUS GOODS AND MUNITIONS
 OF WAR (INCLUDING ARMS AND EXPLOSIVES) IN AIRCRAFT

4.1 DANGEROUS GOODS
4.1.1 Paragraph 50D of the Air Navigation Order state that dangerous goods shall not be carried or have loaded in
 an aircraft unless the operator of the aircraft has been granted with a dangerous goods permit granted by the
 Director-General of Civil Aviation and in accordance with any conditions which may be imposed. This provision
 applies to all aircraft flying to, from or over the Republic of Singapore, and to Singapore registered aircraft
 wherever they may be. Where an operator of an aircraft has diplomatic clearance from the Ministry of Foreign
 Affairs to land the aircraft in Singapore, the operator is not required, for the period of time that the diplomatic
 clearance is valid, to obtain a dangerous goods permit.

4.1.2 A dangerous goods permit, if granted, is subject to compliance with Annex 18 to the Convention on International
 Civil Aviation and the latest edition of the ICAO Technical Instructions relating to the Safe Transport of Dangerous
 Goods by Air.

4.1.3 Operators who wish to carry dangerous goods should submit their applications to the address below, in the
 prescribed form, giving full details of the consignment:

 Flight Standards Division
 Civil Aviation Authority of Singapore
 Singapore Changi Airport
 P.O.Box 1, Singapore 918141
 FAX: (65) 65456519
 TEL: (65) 65413487

 Each application must be supported by a shipper's declaration form, airway bill and commercial invoice. All
 airline operators planning to carry dangerous goods to, from or through Singapore may request for the application
 forms from Flight Standards Division, CAAS (email: CAAS_dangerousgoods@caas.gov.sg). These applications
 should be submitted at least 7 working days before the intended date of carriage.